
1. Front Oncol. 2020 Aug 19;10:1563. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2020.01563. eCollection 2020.

Matrix Stiffness-Upregulated MicroRNA-17-5p Attenuates the Intervention Effects
of Metformin on HCC Invasion and Metastasis by Targeting the PTEN/PI3K/Akt
Pathway.

Gao X(1), Qiao X(1), Xing X(2), Huang J(1), Qian J(1), Wang Y(1), Zhang Y(1),
Zhang X(2), Li M(2), Cui J(2), Yang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.
(2)Liver Cancer Institute, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University & Key Laboratory 
of Carcinogenesis and Cancer Invasion, Ministry of Education, Shanghai, China.

Background: Metformin, a traditional first-line anti-hyperglycemic agent for
diabetes, recently exhibits better antitumor effect in hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC). However, its resistance and tolerance mechanism in HCC remains largely
unknown. Here, we investigated whether increased matrix stiffness attenuated the 
intervention effects of metformin on HCC invasion and metastasis, and explored
its underlying molecular mechanism.
Methods: FN-coated gel substrates with 6, 10, and 16 kPa, which simulated the
stiffness of normal, fibrotic, and cirrhotic liver tissues respectively, were
established to evaluate matrix stiffness-mediated effects on HCC cells.
Alterations in morphology, proliferation, motility, and
invasive/metastatic-associated genes (PTEN, MMP2, MMP9) of HCC cells grown on
different-stiffness substrates were comparatively analyzed before and after
metformin intervention. Subsequently, the underlying molecular mechanism by which
higher matrix stiffness attenuates antitumor effects of metformin in HCC was
further elucidated.
Results: Metformin significantly inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion
of HCC cells. Compared with the controls on lower-stiffness substrate, HCC cells 
grown on higher-stiffness substrate exhibited an obvious resistance to
intervention effects of metformin on proliferation, migration, invasion and
metastasis. High stiffness stimulation significantly activated the
miR-17-5p/PTEN/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway in HCC cells via integrin β1 and in
turn resulted in MMP2 and MMP9 upregulation. Meanwhile, integrin β1 knockdown or 
PI3K inhibitor partially reversed the activation of the above signaling
molecules. For HCC cells grown on the same-stiffness substrate, metformin
remarkably upregulated PTEN expression and suppressed the activation of the
PI3K/Akt/MMP pathway, but no effect on integrin β1 expression. Importantly, the
increase in fold of PTEN expression and decrease in folds of Akt phosphorylation 
level and MMP2 and MMP9 expressions in the treated HCC cells with metformin on
16-kPa stiffness substrate were evidently weakened compared with those in the
controls on the 6-kPa stiffness substrate.
Conclusions: Increased matrix stiffness significantly attenuates the inhibitory
effect of metformin on HCC invasion and metastasis, and a common pathway of
PTEN/PI3K/Akt/MMPs activated by mechanical stiffness signal and inactivated by
metformin contributes to matrix stiffness-caused metformin resistance. To the
best of our knowledge, this is the first report to clarify the mechanism of
metformin intervention resistance from the perspective of tumor biophysical
microenvironment.

Copyright © 2020 Gao, Qiao, Xing, Huang, Qian, Wang, Zhang, Zhang, Li, Cui and
Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.01563 
PMCID: PMC7466473
PMID: 32974191 


2. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2020 Jul 31;8:714. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00714.
eCollection 2020.

Circular RNA cMTO1 Promotes PTEN Expression Through Sponging miR-181b-5p in Liver
Fibrosis.

Jin H(1), Li C(2), Dong P(3), Huang J(2), Yu J(2)(4), Zheng J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Severe Hepato-Pancreatic Diseases
of Zhejiang Province, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou
Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lishui Municipal Central Hospital, Lishui, 
China.

Background: Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are considered as key regulators of cancer
biology. Recently, cMTO1 (a circRNA derived from MTO1 gene, hsa_circ_0007874) has
been demonstrated to act as a tumor suppressor in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
However, the roles of cMTO1 in liver fibrosis are largely unknown.
Methods: Expressions and roles of cMTO1 were examined in vivo and in vitro during
liver fibrosis. The interaction between microRNA-181b-5p (miR-181b-5p) and cMTO1 
was analyzed by luciferase activity assays and pull down assays.
Results: cMTO1 was shown to be reduced in the liver from patients with cirrhosis.
In addition, cMTO1 was down-regulated in the mouse fibrotic livers as well as
activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Restoring of cMTO1 led to a reduction in
HSC proliferation. Results of immunofluorescence analysis showed that cMTO1
suppressed the expressions of α-SMA and type I collagen. cMTO1 was found to be
expressed in the cytoplasm of HSCs. Further studies confirmed that cMTO1 and
miR-181b-5p were co-located in the cytoplasm. Interestingly, there was an
interaction between cMTO1 and miR-181b-5p. Results of luciferase reporter assays 
and pull down assays confirmed that miR-181b-5p could bind to cMTO1.
cMTO1-inhibited HSC activation was blocked down by miR-181b-5p or PTEN.
Meanwhile, PTEN was a target of miR-181b-5p.
Conclusion: cMTO1 inhibits HSC activation, at least in part, through
miR-181b-5p-mediated PTEN expression. Our results also suggest that cMTO1 may be 
a novel therapeutic target in liver fibrosis.

Copyright © 2020 Jin, Li, Dong, Huang, Yu and Zheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00714 
PMCID: PMC7413143
PMID: 32850833 


3. Am J Transl Res. 2020 Jul 15;12(7):3780-3791. eCollection 2020.

HBV infection exacerbates PTEN defects in hepatocellular carcinoma through
upregulation of miR-181a/382/362/19a.

Ma S(1)(2), Qin K(1)(3), Ouyang H(1), Zhu H(1), Lei P(1), Shen G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan 430030, Hubei, China.
(2)Department of Nosocomial Infection Management, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan 430030, Hubei,
China.
(3)Institute of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Tongji
Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology
Wuhan 430030, Hubei, China.

A high hepatitis B virus (HBV) load and chronic hepatitis B infection are
well-recognized risk factors for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC), highlighting the need for research into the mechanisms underlying the role
of HBV infection in HCC. Because phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) has been
implicated in HCC development, we explored whether PTEN has a role in HBV-related
hepatocarcinogenesis. We found that PTEN expression was correlated with advanced 
clinicopathological features and that HBV infection exacerbates PTEN defects in
HCC. Using an integrated approach, we then investigated if miRNAs linked HBV
infection to PTEN downregulation in HCC and found that PTEN was a target of
miR-181a/382/362/19a. We also show that miR-181a/382/362/19a-mediated inhibition 
of PTEN led to an enhanced malignant phenotype and stimulation of AKT signaling
in HCC cells. Collectively, our results indicate that HBV infection exacerbates
PTEN defects in hepatocellular carcinoma through upregulation of
miR-181a/362/382/19a. Our work implicates miR-181a/362/382/19a and PTEN as
potential biomarkers and targets for novel prognostic, diagnostic, and
therapeutic strategies targeting HBV-related HCC.

AJTR Copyright © 2020.


PMCID: PMC7407694
PMID: 32774734 

Conflict of interest statement: None.


4. Int J Mol Med. 2020 Jul;46(1):97-106. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2020.4577. Epub 2020 Apr 
14.

Sevoflurane inhibits the proliferation and invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma
cells through regulating the PTEN/Akt/GSK‑3β/β‑catenin signaling pathway by
downregulating miR‑25‑3p.

Cao Y(1), Lv W(1), Ding W(2), Li J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Beijing Youan Hospital, Capital Medical
University, Beijing 100048, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, No. 6 Medical Center, General Hospital of PLA,
Beijing 100048, P.R. China.

Sevoflurane (Sevo) is one of the most frequently used volatile anesthetic agents 
in surgical oncology and has various effects on tumors, including inhibiting
tumor growth, recurrence, and metastases; however, the molecular mechanisms are
unknown. This study tried to investigate the influence of Sevo on hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) cells and its possible mechanisms of action. The present study
found that Sevo suppressed both the proliferative and invasive capabilities of
both HCCLM3 and Huh7 cells in a dose‑dependent manner. Moreover, 53
differentially expressed microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) in HCC cells that resulted from 
Sevo were screened out using miRNA microarray assay. In particular, miR‑25‑3p
displayed a significant decrease in response to Sevo treatment. Further studies
showed that Sevo's inhibitory actions on HCC cells were attenuated by
overexpression of miR‑25‑3p but enhanced by its inhibitor. Phosphatidylinositol
3,4,5‑trisphosphate 3‑phosphatase and dual‑specificity protein phosphatase PTEN
(PTEN), a tumor suppressor gene, was directly targeted by miR‑25‑3p and its
expression was upregulated by Sevo. In addition, Sevo suppressed the expression
of phosphorylated‑protein kinase B (p‑Akt) (S473), glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)
3β (p‑GSK3β) (S9), β‑catenin, c‑Myc and matrix metalloproteinase 9; whereas these
inhibitory effects were reversed by miR‑25‑3p overexpression. More importantly,
Sevo's tumor‑suppressive effects were enhanced by LY294002 (a PI3‑kinase
inhibitor) but weakened by insulin growth factor‑1 (an agonist of the Akt
signaling pathway). These data suggest that Sevo's antitumor effects on HCC could
be explained, in part, by Sevo inhibiting the miR‑25‑3p/PTEN/Akt/GSK‑3β/β‑catenin
signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2020.4577 
PMCID: PMC7255470
PMID: 32319540 


5. Biosci Rep. 2020 Mar 27;40(3). pii: BSR-20182466_RET. doi:
10.1042/BSR-20182466_RET.

Retraction: MicroRNA-367 promotes progression of hepatocellular carcinoma through
PTEN/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.

[No authors listed]

Retraction of
    Biosci Rep. 2019 Sep 20;:null.

DOI: 10.1042/BSR-20182466_RET 
PMCID: PMC7078589
PMID: 32167152 


6. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2020 Jan-Feb;54(1):69-77. doi: 10.31857/S0026898420010152.

[miR-455 Inhibits HepG2 Cell Proliferation and Promotes Apoptosis by Targeting
RhoC].

[Article in Russian]

Xie SL(1), Wang M(1), Du XH(1), Zhao ZW(1), Lv GY(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
Jilin Province, 130021 China.
(2)lvguoyueydyy@163.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignancy worldwide with poor
prognosis and high mortality. The aberrant expression or alteration of microRNAs 
(miRNAs) contributes to the development and progression of cancer. Studies have
shown that miR-455 plays a regulatory role in the development of HCC. Therefore, 
in the present study, the role of miR-455 was analyzed in HepG2 cells
proliferation and apoptosis using MTT and flow cytometry methods. Binding sites
were predicted by bioinformatics and luciferase assay was used to verify the
target relationship between miR-455 and RhoC-encoding gene RHOC. After that, the 
effects of miR-455 on RHOC and its product RhoC, were explored by qPCR and
Western blotting. As PTEN is a key tumor suppressor gene in HCC, and Bcl-2 and
Caspase 3 are important indication of apoptosis, expression levels of PTEN, Bcl2 
and Caspase 3 proteins were determined in cells overexpressing RhoC. We show that
miR-455 promotes HepG2 cells apoptosis and inhibits proliferation. Bioinformatics
analysis and luciferase assay indicate that specific recognition sites for
miR-455 are within the RhoC 3'-UTR. Luciferase activity was significantly lower
in the cells co-transfected with miR-455 mimics and RhoC-WT (p < 0.01) as
compared to that in control cells, pointing that RHOC gene is, indeed, targeted
by miR-455. RHOC mRNA was significantly reduced after miR-455 transfection in
HepG2 cells. In addition, we show that RhoC could activate the HCC cells
proliferation ability and inhibit apoptosis rate (p < 0.01), and decrease
expression of PTEN and Caspase 3 (p < 0.01), while upregulating levels of Bcl2.
In conclusion, our study indicates that miR-455 plays a suppressive role in HCC
development by targeting RhoC-encoding mRNA.

DOI: 10.31857/S0026898420010152 
PMID: 32163390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2019 Dec 31;65(8):7-10.

Focusing on the brighter side of Sevoflurane: Realizing true potential of an
anesthetic agent as a regulator of cell signaling pathways and microRNAs in
different cancers.

Qureshi MZ(1), Attar R(2), Javed A(3), Sabitaliyevich UY(4), Adylova A(4),
Konysbayevna KK(5), Buha A(6), Sohail MI(7), Aras A(8).

Author information: 
(1)Deanship of Educational services, Department of Biochemistry, Qassim
University, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yeditepe University, Turkey.
(3)Wexham Park Hospital, Wexham Street, Slough, Berkshire, SL2 4HL, United
Kingdom.
(4)Department of Postgraduate Education and Research, Kazakhstan Medical
University KSPH, Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(5)Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Zhibek zholy 5, Almaty,
Kazakhstan.
(6)Department of Toxicology "Akademik Danilo Soldatovic", University of
Belgrade-Faculty of Pharmacy, Serbia.
(7)Department of Zoology, GCU Lahore, Pakistan.
(8)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Istanbul University, Istanbul,
Turkey.

Reconceptualization of different anesthetics as anticancer agents has opened new 
horizons for a better and sharper analysis of true potential of Sevoflurane as a 
promising and frontline candidate in the pipeline of anticancer agents.
Sevoflurane mediated regulation of cell signaling pathways and non-coding RNAs
has leveraged our understanding to another level. There have been remarkable
advancements in unraveling mechanistic insights related to the ability of
sevoflurane to modulate microRNAs in different cancers. Astonishingly,
sevoflurane mediated regulation of miRNAs and long non-coding RNAs have been more
comprehensively addressed in ischemia-reperfusion injuries. However, researchers 
yet have to gather missing pieces of premium research-work to uncover mechanistic
regulation of long non-coding RNAs by sevoflurane in various cancers. Sevoflurane
modulated control of miRNAs have been reported in glioma, colorectal cancer,
breast cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. In this review we have attempted to
summarize most recent cutting edge and high-impact experimental researches which 
have elucidated myriad of underlying mechanisms modulated by sevoflurane to
inhibit cancer development and progression. Despite some of the amazing
pharmacological properties of sevoflurane, it has been shown to possess darker
side because of its involvement in positive regulation of metastasis.  In
accordance with this notion we have also summarized how sevoflurane enhanced
migratory potential of different cancer cells in a separate section. Therefore,
these aspects have to be tested in better designed experimental models to
identify most relevant types of cancers which can be therapeutically targeted by 
sevoflurane.


PMID: 32133979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Mol Ther Nucleic Acids. 2020 Mar 6;19:1073-1085. doi: 10.1016/j.omtn.2019.12.043.
Epub 2020 Jan 15.

miR-552 Regulates Liver Tumor-Initiating Cell Expansion and Sorafenib Resistance.

Han T(1), Zhang Y(2), Yang X(3), Han L(4), Li H(5), Chen T(6), Zheng Z(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, General Hospital of Northern Theater Command,
Shenyang, 110016 Liaoning Province, China; Department of Oncology, Second
Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Dalian, 116023, Liaoning
Province, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, General Hospital of Northern Theater Command,
Shenyang, 110016 Liaoning Province, China; Graduate School, Jinzhou Medical
University, Jinzhou, 121000 Liaoning Province, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, General Hospital of Northern Theater Command,
Shenyang, 110016 Liaoning Province, China.
(4)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, General Hospital of Northern Theater
Command, Shenyang, 110016 Liaoning Province, China.
(5)Department of Breast and Thyroid Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Second 
Military Medical University, 200433 Shanghai, China. Electronic address:
lhy@smmu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Cancer Intervention, Shanghai Seventh People's Hospital, 200001 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: cts552052597@163.com.
(7)Department of Oncology, General Hospital of Northern Theater Command,
Shenyang, 110016 Liaoning Province, China. Electronic address:
zhengzhdong@163.com.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in tumorigenesis, progression, recurrence, and
drug resistance of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, few miRNAs have been 
identified and entered clinical practice. Herein, we report that microRNA
(miR)-552 is upregulated in HCC tissues and has an important function in liver
tumor-initiating cells (T-ICs). Functional studies revealed that a forced
expression of miR-552 promotes liver T-IC self-renewal and tumorigenesis.
Conversely, miR-552 knockdown inhibits liver T-IC self-renewal and tumorigenesis.
Mechanistically, miR-552 downregulates phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) via 
its mRNA 3' UTR and activates protein kinase B (AKT) phosphorylation. Our
clinical investigations elucidated the prognostic value of miR-552 in HCC
patients. Furthermore, miR-552 expression determines the responses of hepatoma
cells to sorafenib treatment. The analysis of patient cohorts and patient-derived
xenografts (PDXs) further demonstrated that miR-552 may predict sorafenib
benefits in HCC patients. In conclusion, our findings revealed the crucial role
of the miR-552 in liver T-IC expansion and sorafenib response, rendering miR-552 
an optimal target for the prevention and intervention in HCC.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.omtn.2019.12.043 
PMCID: PMC7015836
PMID: 32044726 


9. J Cell Physiol. 2020 Sep;235(9):6154-6166. doi: 10.1002/jcp.29544. Epub 2020 Feb 
5.

Long noncoding RNA TCL6 binds to miR-106a-5p to regulate hepatocellular carcinoma
cells through PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.

Luo LH(1)(2), Jin M(1), Wang LQ(1), Xu GJ(1), Lin ZY, Yu DD(1), Yang SL(1), Ran
RZ(2), Wu G(1), Zhang T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Center, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oncology II, The Central Hospital of Enshi Autonomous
Prefecture, Enshi Clinical College of Wuhan University, Enshi, Hubei, China.

Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been reported to dysregulate and involve in
the pathology of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Nonetheless, the functional role
of lncRNA T cell leukemia/lymphoma 6 (TCL6) and its underlying mechanism in HCC
remain unclear. Herein, we analyzed the expression of TCL6 and elucidated its
mechanistic involvement in HCC. Bioinformatics analyses indicated TCL6 was
evidently downregulated in HCC tissues compared with normal controls. TCL6 was
downregulated while microRNA-106a-5p (miR-106a-5p) was upregulated in HCC cell
lines. Moreover, knockdown or overexpression of TCL6 significantly raised or
diminished the expression level of miR-106a-5p in HCC cells, similar to the
effect of miR-106a-5p on TCL6 expression. Functionally, TCL6 inhibited the
proliferative, migratory, and invasive potentials of HCC cells as analyzed by
cell counting kit-8, scratch wound healing, and transwell assays, respectively.
Conversely, miR-106a-5p exerted an opposite effect on the proliferative,
migratory, and invasive potentials of HCC. RNA immune precipitation and
luciferase reporter assays revealed TCL6 directly bound to miR-106a-5p and
luciferase reporter assay verified phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) was a
target gene of miR-106a-5p. Mechanistically, TCL6 knockdown evidently reduced
PTEN expression at both messenger RNA and protein levels, and miR-106a-5p
inhibitor partially rescued this reduction effect in HCC cells. Additionally,
western blot assays demonstrated miR-106a-5p downregulation or TCL6
overexpression promoted the protein level of PTEN, and suppressed the
phosphorylation level of AKT, the protein level of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase 
(PI3K). Collectively, these results revealed TCL6 as a tumor-suppressive lncRNA
regulates PI3K/AKT signaling pathway via directly binding to miR-106a-5p in HCC. 
This mechanism provides a theoretical basis for HCC pathogenesis and a potential 
therapeutic strategy for HCC treatment.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.29544 
PMID: 32020591 


10. Acta Pharm Sin B. 2020 Jan;10(1):159-170. doi: 10.1016/j.apsb.2019.11.001. Epub
2019 Nov 7.

Bioengineered miR-328-3p modulates GLUT1-mediated glucose uptake and metabolism
to exert synergistic antiproliferative effects with chemotherapeutics.

Yi W(1)(2), Tu MJ(2), Liu Z(2), Zhang C(2), Batra N(2), Yu AX(1), Yu AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Trauma and Microsurgery, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan 
University, Wuhan 430072, China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Medicine, UC Davis School of Medicine, 
Sacramento 95817, CA, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) are small noncoding RNAs derived from genome to
control target gene expression. Recently we have developed a novel platform
permitting high-yield production of bioengineered miRNA agents (BERA). This study
is to produce and utilize novel fully-humanized BERA/miR-328-3p molecule
(hBERA/miR-328) to delineate the role of miR-328-3p in controlling nutrient
uptake essential for cell metabolism. We first demonstrated successful high-level
expression of hBERA/miR-328 in bacteria and purification to high degree of
homogeneity (>98%). Biologic miR-328-3p prodrug was selectively processed to
miR-328-3p to suppress the growth of highly-proliferative human osteosarcoma (OS)
cells. Besides glucose transporter protein type 1, gene symbol solute carrier
family 2 member 1 (GLUT1/SLC2A1), we identified and verified large neutral amino 
acid transporter 1, gene symbol solute carrier family 7 member 5 (LAT1/SLC7A5) as
a direct target for miR-328-3p. While reduction of LAT1 protein levels by
miR-328-3p did not alter homeostasis of amino acids within OS cells, suppression 
of GLUT1 led to a significantly lower glucose uptake and decline in intracellular
levels of glucose and glycolytic metabolite lactate. Moreover, combination
treatment with hBERA/miR-328 and cisplatin or doxorubicin exerted a strong
synergism in the inhibition of OS cell proliferation. These findings support the 
utility of novel bioengineered RNA molecules and establish an important role of
miR-328-3p in the control of nutrient transport and homeostasis behind cancer
metabolism.

© 2019 Chinese Pharmaceutical Association and Institute of Materia Medica,
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apsb.2019.11.001 
PMCID: PMC6976971
PMID: 31993313 


11. Cancer Lett. 2020 Jun 28;480:49-50. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2020.01.014. Epub 2020 
Jan 22.

Corrigendum to "MicroRNA-21 suppresses PTEN and hSulf-1 expression and promotes
hepatocellular carcinoma progression through AKT/ERK pathways" [Cancer Letters
337 (2013) 226-236].

Bao L(1), Yan Y(1), Xu C(2), Ji W(1), Shen S(1), Xu G(1), Zeng Y(1), Sun B(1),
Qian H(1), Chen L(1), Wu M(1), Chen J(3), Su C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Oncology, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgical Hospital &
Institute, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200438, China.
(2)Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200168,
China.
(3)Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200168,
China. Electronic address: chenjiedoctor@163.com.
(4)Department of Molecular Oncology, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgical Hospital &
Institute, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200438, China.
Electronic address: suchangqing@gmail.com.

Erratum for
    Cancer Lett. 2013 Sep 1;337(2):226-36.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2020.01.014 
PMID: 31982228 


12. Cancer Lett. 2020 Mar 31;473:198-199. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2019.12.034. Epub
2020 Jan 8.

Corrigendum to "MicroRNA-21 suppresses PTEN and hSulf-1 expression and promotes
hepatocellular carcinoma progression through AKT/ERK pathways" [Canc. Lett. 337
(2013) 226-236].

Bao L(1), Yan Y(1), Xu C(2), Ji W(1), Shen S(1), Xu G(1), Zeng Y(1), Sun B(1),
Qian H(1), Chen L(1), Wu M(1), Chen J(3), Su C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Oncology, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgical Hospital &
Institute, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200438, China.
(2)Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200168,
China.
(3)Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200168,
China. Electronic address: chenjiedoctor@163.com.
(4)Department of Molecular Oncology, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgical Hospital &
Institute, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200438, China.
Electronic address: suchangqing@gmail.com.

Erratum for
    Cancer Lett. 2013 Sep 1;337(2):226-36.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2019.12.034 
PMID: 31926781 


13. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2020 Jan 24. doi: 10.1089/ars.2019.7987. [Epub ahead of
print]

Oxidative Stress and Cancer Development: Are Noncoding RNAs the Missing Links?

D'Souza LC(1), Mishra S(2), Chakraborty A(3), Shekher A(2), Sharma A(1), Gupta
SC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Environmental Health and Toxicology, Nitte University Centre for
Science Education and Research (NUCSER), Mangaluru, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University,
Varanasi, India.
(3)Division of Molecular Genetics and Cancer, Nitte University Centre for Science
Education and Research (NUCSER), Mangaluru, India.

Significance: It is now clear that genetic changes underlie the basis of cancer, 
and alterations in functions of multiple genes are responsible for the process of
tumorigenesis. Besides the classical genes that are usually implicated in cancer,
the role of noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) as
independent entitites has also been investigated. Recent Advances: The microRNAs 
and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), two main classes of ncRNAs, are known to
regulate many aspects of tumor development. ROS, generated during oxidative
stress and pathological conditions, are known to regulate every step of tumor
development. Conversely, oxidative stress and ROS producing agents can suppress
tumor development. The malignant cells normally produce high levels of ROS
compared with normal cells. The interaction between ROS and ncRNAs regulates the 
expression of multiple genes and pathways implicated in cancer, suggesting a
unique mechanistic relationship among ncRNA-ROS-cancer. The mechanistic
relationship has been reported in hepatocellular carcinoma, glioma, and
malignancies of blood, breast, colorectum, esophagus, kidney, lung, mouth, ovary,
pancreas, prostate, and stomach. The ncRNA-ROS regulate several cancer-related
cell signaling pathways, namely, protein kinase B (AKT), epidermal growth factor 
receptor (EGFR), forkhead box O3 (FOXO3), kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1
(Keap1), nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB), 
nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), p53, phosphatase and tensin
homologue (PTEN), and wingless-related integration site (Wnt)/glycogen synthase
kinase-3 beta (GSK3β). Critical Issues: To date, most of the reports about
ncRNA-oxidative stress-carcinogenesis relationships are based on cell lines. The 
mechanistic basis for this relationship has not been completely elucidated.
Future Directions: Attempts should be made to explore the association of lncRNAs 
with ROS. The significance of the ncRNA-oxidative stress-carcinogenesis interplay
should also be explored through studies in animal models. Antioxid. Redox Signal.
00, 000-000.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2019.7987 
PMID: 31891666 


14. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2020 Feb 1;318(2):E262-E275. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.00276.2019. Epub 2019 Dec 10.

miR-130b is a potent stimulator of hepatic very-low-density lipoprotein assembly 
and secretion via marked induction of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein.

Zhang J(1), Jazii FR(1), Haghighi MM(1), Alvares D(1)(2), Liu L(1), Khosraviani
N(2), Adeli K(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine, Research Institute, The Hospital for Sick Children,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

miR-130b is a microRNA whose expression is particularly elevated within adipose
tissue and in the circulation in diabetic states. Hepatic miR-130b expression has
been linked to hepatocellular carcinoma and changes in lipid metabolism. Here, we
investigated the role of miR-130b in hepatic lipid homeostasis and lipoprotein
export. We observed that overexpression of miR-130b-3p or -5p in HepG2 cells
markedly enhanced the secretion of very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) particles,
enhanced the secretion of [3H]glycerol metabolically labeled triglyceride (TG),
and significantly increased the number or the average size of lipid droplets
(LDs), respectively. Overexpression of miR-130b also altered the expression of
key genes involved in lipid metabolism and in particular markedly increased both 
mRNA and protein expression levels of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein
(MTP). Conversely, the miR-130b inhibitor decreased mRNA levels of MTP and fatty 
acid synthase (FAS) in HepG2 cells. However, dual-luciferase reporter assays
indicated that MTP is not a direct target of miR-130b-3p. miR-130b overexpression
did not alter de novo synthesized TG or the stability and secretion of
apolipoprotein B 100. Interestingly, knockdown of phosphatase and tensin homolog 
(PTEN) blocked the upregulation of MTP mRNA induced by miR-130b. Finally,
miR-130b-induced stimulation of VLDL secretion was also observed in a second
hepatocyte cell culture model, immortalized human hepatocytes, confirming the
effects observed in HepG2 cells. Overall, these data suggest a potential role for
miR-130b in promoting hepatic VLDL assembly and secretion mediated by marked
stimulation of MTP expression and TG mobilization. Thus miR-130b overexpression
corrects the defect in VLDL production in HepG2 cells.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00276.2019 
PMID: 31821038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Molecules. 2019 Nov 30;24(23). pii: E4384. doi: 10.3390/molecules24234384.

Oroxin B Induces Apoptosis by Down-Regulating MicroRNA-221 Resulting in the
Inactivation of the PTEN/PI3K/AKT Pathway in Liver Cancer.

Li N(1), Men W(1), Zheng Y(1), Wang H(1), Meng X(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Dalian 116000, China.
(2)Component Medicine Engineering Research Center of Liaoning Province, Dalian
116000, China.
(3)Liaoning Province Modern Chinese Medicine Research Engineering Laboratory,
Dalian 116000, China.
(4)Agilent Technologies Modern TCM and Multi-Omics Research Collaboration Lab,
Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Dalian 116000, China.

This study aims to investigate the anticancer effect of Oroxin B (OB) both in
vitro and in vivo, and the molecular mechanism involved in microRNA-221 and the
PI3K/Akt/PTEN pathway through modulation of apoptosis in Hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC). DEN-induced rats and HepG2 cells based on the microfluidic chip were
employed, while the mRNA and protein expression of microRNA-221, PI3K, p-Akt and 
PTEN were evaluated by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Based on Microfluidic
Chip and DEN-induced rat model, OB effectively exerts anti-liver cancer effect
both in vitro and in vivo, and the expression of miR-221 in OB treated groups was
significantly lower than that in the control group (** p < 0.01). The RT-PCR and 
Western blot results suggested the PI3K mRNA and protein in OB treated groups
were both lower than those in control group and indicated the overexpression of
PTEN. Therefore, OB effectively exerts anticancer effects by positively
regulating the PTEN gene and then inactivating the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway
through down-regulating the expression of the microRNA-221, thereby inducing
apoptosis of liver cancer cells. This study offers a theoretical evidence for
further development and clinical guidance of OB as an anti-tumor agent.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24234384 
PMCID: PMC6930563
PMID: 31801250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Onco Targets Ther. 2019 Aug 29;12:7045-7054. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S213705.
eCollection 2019.

MicroRNA-3651 promotes the growth and invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma cells 
by targeting PTEN.

Zhao X(#)(1), Song Q(#)(2), Miao G(#)(3), Zhu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, The Central Hospital of Wuhan, Tongji
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei
430030, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Central Hospital of Wuhan, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430030,
People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Outpatient Guidance, The Central Hospital of Wuhan, Tongji
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei
430030, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignant
tumors in human worldwide. Evidence indicated that upregulation of microRNA-3651 
(miR-3651) was observed in human HCC tissues. In this study, we explored the
mechanisms by which miR-3651 regulated the proliferation, apoptosis and invasion 
of HCC.
Methods: The levels of miR-3651 in human HCC tissues were detected using qRT-PCR 
assay. In addition, transwell invasion and Western blot assay were conducted to
detect cell invasion and apoptosis, respectively. Meanwhile, the dual-luciferase 
reporter assay was used to explore the interaction of miR-3651 and phosphate and 
tension homology deleted on chromsome ten (PTEN) in HCC.
Results: The levels of miR-3651 were upregulated in HCC tissues in comparison
with the matched normal tissues. Overexpression of miR-3651 significantly
promoted the proliferation and invasion of Huh-7 cells. In contrast, inhibition
of miR-3651 markedly inhibited the proliferation and invasion of Huh-7 cells via 
promoting apoptosis. Moreover, downregulation of miR-3651 markedly inhibited
tumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, bioinformatics analysis and luciferase
reporter assay identified that PTEN was the directly binding target of miR-3651
in Huh-7 cells. Meanwhile, overexpression of miR-3651 obviously decreased the
level of PTEN, and increased the expressions of p-p85 and p-Akt in Huh-7 cells.
Conclusion: These results indicated that miR-3651 might act as a potential
oncogene in HCC by targeting PTEN. Therefore, miR-3651 might be a novel
therapeutic target for the treatment of HCC.

© 2019 Zhao et al.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S213705 
PMCID: PMC6718252
PMID: 31695418 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.


17. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2019 Nov;23(11):915-929. doi:
10.1080/14728222.2019.1685501. Epub 2019 Nov 4.

RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK, PI3K/PTEN/AKT/mTORC1 and TP53 pathways and regulatory miRs as
therapeutic targets in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Akula SM(1), Abrams SL(1), Steelman LS(1), Emma MR(2), Augello G(2), Cusimano
A(2), Azzolina A(2), Montalto G(2)(3), Cervello M(2), McCubrey JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Brody School of Medicine at East
Carolina University, Greenville, NC, USA.
(2)Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation, National Research Council
(CNR), Palermo, Italy.
(3)Department of Health Promotion Sciences Maternal and Infantile Care, Internal 
Medicine and Medical Specialties, University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

Introduction: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a significant problem globally
because of viral infections and the increasing incidence of obesity and fatty
liver disease. However, it is difficult to treat because its inherent genetic
heterogeneity results in activation of numerous signaling pathways. Kinases have 
been targeted for decades with varying results, but the development of
therapeutic resistance is a major challenge.Areas covered: The key roles of the
RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK, PI3K/PTEN/AKT/mTORC1, TP53 microRNAs (miRs) as therapeutic
targets are discussed and we suggests novel approaches for targeting miRs or
their downstream targets to combat HCC. We performed literature searches using
the Medline Database from 2000 to the present.Expert opinion: The involvement of 
RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK, PI3K/PTEN/AKT/mTORC and TP53 pathways as drivers of the disease 
and drug resistance is a challenge. Moreover, miRs regulate the expression of key
genes in these pathways. What we and others are proposing is the prospect of
targeting miRs and their downstream targets to improve conventional approaches to
treat HCC. Combination approaches are often promising because multiple signaling 
pathways are deregulated due to diverse mutations and events.

DOI: 10.1080/14728222.2019.1685501 
PMID: 31657972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Onco Targets Ther. 2019 Oct 11;12:8367-8378. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S207549.
eCollection 2019.

miR-942 promotes proliferation and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma cells
by inhibiting RRM2B.

Zhang Q(#)(1), Zhu B(#)(2), Qian J(1), Wang K(1), Zhou J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical
University, Guangzhou 510515, People's Republic of China.
(2)Huiqiao Medical Center, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou 510515, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of
cancer-related death. MicroRNA-942 (miR-942) plays a critical role in promoting
proliferation and metastasis of cancer cells and is associated with poor
prognosis in some types of cancers. However, the prognostic value of miR-942 and 
its functional role in HCC remain unclear.
Materials and methods: Real-time PCR (RT-PCR) was used to detect the expression
of miR-942 in HCC tissues and adjacent normal liver tissues. Next, the
correlations between miR-942 expression and clinicopathological parameters
including the survival rate were analyzed. Interaction between miR-942 and
ribonucleotide reductase regulatory TP53 inducible subunit M2B (RRM2B) was
determined by RT-PCR, Western blot and luciferase assay. The biological influence
of miR-942 on HCC cell lines was studied using CCK-8 assay, colony formation
assay and transwell assay in vitro. Western blot and RT-PCR were used to analyze 
the change of downstream genes after miR-942 mimics transfection.
Results: miR-942 was significantly up-regulated in HCC. Its high expression was
associated with serum alanine transaminase level (P=0.0350), tumor size
(P=0.0195), T stage (P=0.0045) and lymphatic metastasis (P=0.0013). High
expression of miR-942 was associated with shorter overall survival and
disease-free survival time of HCC patients. RRM2B was validated as a target gene 
of miR-942. miR-942 mimics markedly promoted the malignant phenotypes of Huh7 and
MHCC97H cell lines, while its inhibitor had the opposite effect. miR-942 can
regulate the downstream genes of RRM2B including Egr-1 and PTEN, markers of
epithelial-mesenchymal transition and matrix metalloproteinases.
Conclusion: miR-942 may serve as a potential biomarker for HCC and its inhibitor 
may be a therapeutic agent for the treatment of this deadly disease.

© 2019 Zhang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S207549 
PMCID: PMC6795128
PMID: 31632084 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.


19. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Biosci Rep. 2019 Sep 20. pii: BSR20182466. doi: 10.1042/BSR20182466. [Epub ahead 
of print]

MicroRNA-367 promotes progression of hepatocellular carcinoma through PTEN
/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.

Wang Z(1), Luo Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hunan Provincial Tumor Hospital, Changsha, China.
(2)Hunan Provincial Tumor Hospital, Changsha, China wertyjkx@163.com.

Retraction in
    Biosci Rep. 2020 Mar 27;40(3):.

The study aimed to investigate the functional roles of micorRNA (miR)-367 in
progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), as well as its regulation on
PI3K/AKT pathway. The relative expression of miR-367  in HCC tissues and cell
line was detected using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction
(qRT-PCR) method. Chi-square test was applied to analyze the relationship between
miR-367 expression and clinical characterizes of HCC patients. The influences of 
miR-367  expression on cell proliferation, migration and invasion were analyzed
using MTT and transwell assays respectively. Western blot assay was performed to 
for protein analysis. HCC tissues and cell lines exhibited significant
up-regulation of miR-367 Moreover, the elevated expression of miR-367  was
positively correlated with tumor size ( P =0.005), metastasis ( P =0.004) and TNM
stage ( P< 0.001). Knockdown of miR-367  expression could inhibit cell
proliferation, migration and invasion in vitro. While, enhanced miR-367
 expression exhibited opposite effects. Besides, inhibition of miR-367  might
enhance PTEN  expression, reduce the levels of p-GSK3β and p-AKT. PTEN  might be 
a target of miR-367  in HCC. The inhibition of PTEN  could reverse the anti-tumor
action caused by the knockdown of miR-367  MiR-367  serves as an oncogene in HCC 
through activating the PI3K/AKT pathway by targeting PTEN.

©2019 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20182466 
PMID: 31541003 


20. Onco Targets Ther. 2019 Jun 21;12:4897-4906. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S208127.
eCollection 2019.

miR-3691-5p promotes hepatocellular carcinoma cell migration and invasion through
activating PI3K/Akt signaling by targeting PTEN.

Du W(#)(1), Zhang X(#)(1), Wan Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, School of Queen Mary, Nanchang University,
Nanchang, 330006, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang
University, Nanchang 33006, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Background: The enhanced ability of cancer metastasis is the major cause for the 
cancer-related death of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Better understanding the 
mechanisms for the motility of cancer cells will benefit the treatment.
Accumulating evidence suggests that aberrant microRNA (miRNA) expression
contributes to HCC development and progression, whereas miR-3691-5p has not been 
reported in HCC. Purpose: The aim of this study was to elucidate the expression, 
function and mechanism of miR-3691-5p in HCC. Methods: Real-time quantitative
polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was performed to detect miR-3691-5p expression
in HCC tissues and cell lines database analysis were conducted for detection of
the expression of miR-3691-5p in HCC. Then, the association of miR-3691-5p with
clinicopathological features of HCC patients were statistically measured.
Subsequently, we attempted to observe the effects of miR-3691-5p on migration and
invasion of HCC cells by transwell assays. Furthermore, bioinformatics tools and 
luciferase reporter gene assay as well as recuse experiments were conducted to
explore the target of miR-3691-5p in HCC, and to explore whether the target
mediated the effects of miR-3691-5p HCC cells. Results: In the current study, we 
found that miR-3691-5p expression was elevated in both HCC tissues and cell
lines, which was significantly correlated with poor prognosis and
clinicopathological features including TNM stage (P=0.016) and vascular invasion 
(P=0.016). Furthermore, gain-or loss-of function assays demonstrated that
miR-3691-5p promoted HCC cell migration and invasion. Luciferase reporter assay
confirmed that PTEN was a direct downstream target of miR-3691-5p. Recuse assays 
showed that restoration of PTEN reversed the effects of miR-3691-5p on HCC cell
migration and invasion through decreasing PI3K/Akt signaling. Conclusion: Our
results demonstrated that miR-3691-5p contributes to HCC cell migration and
invasion through activating PI3K/Akt signaling by targeting PTEN.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S208127 
PMCID: PMC6593750
PMID: 31417285 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.


21. Onco Targets Ther. 2019 Jul 15;12:5639-5647. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S203382.
eCollection 2019.

MicroRNA-106b-5p promotes hepatocellular carcinoma development via modulating
FOG2.

Yu LX(1)(2), Zhang BL(3), Yang MY(2), Liu H(2), Xiao CH(2), Zhang SG(2), Liu
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Surgical Oncology, Chinese People's Liberation Army General
Hospital, Beijing 100039, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, 302 Military Hospital of China, Beijing
100039, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Clinical Medical College of Weifang Medical
University, Weifang 261053, People's Republic of China.

Background: A recent study has revealed that miR-106b-5p might promote
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) stemness maintenance and metastasis by targeting
PTEN via PI3K/Akt pathway based on HCC cell lines and animal models. Its clinical
relevance remains unknown. Purpose: Herein, we aimed to evaluate associations of 
miR-106b-5p dysregulation with various clinicopathological features of HCC
patients and investigate its functions during HCC progression. Patients and
methods: At first, miR-106b-5p expression in 130 pairs of HCC and adjacent normal
liver tissues was detected by quantitative PCR. Chi-square test was then
performed to determine clinical significance. Further investigations on its
functions were performed by miRNA target prediction and validation, as well as
cellular experiments. Results: miR-106b-5p levels in HCC tissues were
significantly higher than those in the adjacent normal liver tissues (P<0.001).
High miR-106b-5p expression was significantly associated with advanced tumor
stage (P=0.02) and high tumor grade (P=0.03). In addition, Friend of GATA 2
(FOG2) was identified as a direct target of miR-106b-5p in HCC cells. Moreover,
the clinical relevance to HCC progression of the combined high miR-106b-5p and
low FOG2 expression was more significant than high miR-106b-5p alone.
Functionally, enforced expression of miR-106b-5p reduced FOG2 expression and
promoted the proliferation and invasion of HCC cells. Furthermore,
co-transfection of FOG2 restored the oncogenic roles of miR-106b-5p
over-expression. Conclusion: Our data offer the convincing evidence that
miR-106b-5p upregulation may promote the aggressive progression of HCC.
miR-106b-5p overexpression may promote HCC cell proliferation and invasion by
suppressing FOG2, implying its potentials as a promising therapeutic target for
HCC patients.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S203382 
PMCID: PMC6642636
PMID: 31406464 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors clarified that there were no
conflicts of interest in the current study.


22. Am J Transl Res. 2019 Jul 15;11(7):4089-4099. eCollection 2019.

LncRNA meg3 suppresses hepatocellular carcinoma in vitro and vivo studies.

Zhang Y(1), Liu J(2), Lv Y(3), Zhang C(4), Guo S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hand and Foot Surgery, Linyi Central Hospital Linyi 276400,
Shandong, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Rizhao Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine Rizhao
276800, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine (4), Shandong Provincial Chest Hospital Jinan 
250013, Shandong, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatobiliary Discipline, Rizhao Hospital
of Traditional Chinese Medicine Rizhao 276800, Shandong, China.
(5)Department of Oncology, Shandong Provincial Chest Hospital Jinan 250013,
Shandong, China.

Although abnormal expression of the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) MEG3 has been
reported in multiple cancer types, the role of MEG3 in the pathobiology of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unknown. This study evaluated the
expression of lncRNA MEG3 and a microRNA (miRNA-10a-5p) implicated in HCC
metastasis in cancer and carcinoma adjacent tissues of HCC samples (n=30 each)
via in situ hybridization and quantitative RT-PCR. The effects of overexpressing 
either MEG3 alone, or MEG3 in combination with miRNA-10a-5p, on the
proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle progression, migration, and invasion of
HepG2 cells were evaluated using functional assays. Dual luciferase reporter
assays and western blotting were employed to delineate the mechanisms of MEG3 and
miRNA-10a-5p regulation of key oncogenes and tumor suppressors in HCC cells.
Compared to carcinoma-adjacent regions, MEG3 expression was downregulated in
cancer regions of HCC samples; by contrast, miRNA-10a-5p was overexpressed in
cancer regions compared to tumor-adjacent areas. Furthermore, overexpression of
MEG3 (a) decreased proliferation, migration, and invasion of HepG2 cells; (b)
enhanced apoptosis and the proportion of HepG2 cells in G1 of the cell cycle; (c)
increased the expression of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN),
Bcl2-associated X (Bax), and p53 proteins; and (d) decreased the expression of
miRNA-10a-5p, AKT, p-AKT, Bcl-2, and the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs)-2 and
-9. Furthermore, miRNA-10a-5p bound the 3-untranslated region of PTEN mRNA and
downregulated PTEN protein expression. Taken together, these data suggest that
MEG3 regulates the PTEN/AKT/MMP-2/MMP-9 signaling axis and contributes to HCC
development by targeting miRNA-10a-5p.


PMCID: PMC6684911
PMID: 31396320 

Conflict of interest statement: None.


23. Physiol Genomics. 2019 Oct 1;51(10):500-505. doi:
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00019.2019. Epub 2019 Jun 28.

MiR-718 mediates the indirect interaction between lncRNA SEMA3B-AS1 and PTEN to
regulate the proliferation of hepatocellular carcinoma cells.

Zhong Y(1), Li Y(1), Song T(1), Zhang D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Tianjin Nankai Hospital,
Tianjin City, China.

It has been reported that SEMA3B-AS1 is a tumor-suppressive lncRNA in gastric
cardia adenocarcinoma. We explored the possible involvement of SEMA3B-AS1 in
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We found that SEMA3B-AS1 was downregulated in HCC
tissues compared with noncancer tissues and was not affected by hepatitis B virus
(HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections. In addition, SEMA3B-AS1 expression 
was not affect by cancer development, and low SEMA3B-AS1 levels were closely
correlated with poor survival. SEMA3B-AS1 in HCC tissues was inversely correlated
with microRNA (miR)-718 and positively correlated with PTEN. In HCC cells,
SEMA3B-AS1 overexpression resulted in upregulated, while miR-718 overexpression
resulted in downregulated phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression. In
addition, miR-718 overexpression attenuated the effects of SEMA3B-AS1
overexpression. SEMA3B-AS1 and PTEN overexpression resulted in a reduced
proliferation rate of HCC cells, while miR-718 overexpression resulted in an
increased rate. In addition, miR-718 overexpression attenuated the effects of
SEMA3B-AS1 overexpression. Therefore, miR-718 may mediate the indirect
interaction between lncRNA SEMA3B-AS1 and PTEN to regulate the proliferation of
hepatocellular carcinoma cells.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00019.2019 
PMID: 31251699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Cell Biochem. 2019 Oct;120(10):18152-18161. doi: 10.1002/jcb.29121. Epub 2019
Jun 12.

Antitumor activity of sevoflurane in HCC cell line is mediated by miR-29a-induced
suppression of Dnmt3a.

Song G(1), Tian L(2), Cheng Y(1), Liu J(1), Wang K(2), Li S(1), Li T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Dongying People's Hospital, Dongying, Shandong, 
China.
(2)Department of Operating Room, Dongying People's Hospital, Dongying, Shandong, 
China.

Sevoflurane (SEVO) is widely applied as an anesthetic. More recently, its
antitumor capacity has been reported. However, potent mechanisms are still
incompletely ascertained. In our current study, we attempted to elucidate a
potent mechanism associated with microRNA (miR)-29a/DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha
(Dnmt3a) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells. After transfection and
stimulation with SEVO, biological activities of Huh7 and HepG2 cells were
evaluated using the cell counting kit-8, Annexin V-fluorescein isothiocyanate
apoptosis detection kit, 24-well cell migration assay kit, and tumor invasion
24-well plates. miR-29a and protein expression were quantified with quantitative 
reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assay,
respectively. A Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay System was used to verify whether 
miR-29a targets Dnmt3a. We found that SEVO alleviated cell viability, aggrandized
apoptosis, and impeded migration and invasion of the Huh7 and HepG2 cells.
Besides, SEVO enhanced phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression, and
phosphorylated expression of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K), and protein
kinase B (AKT) was eliminated by SEVO. Of note, SEVO restored miR-29a which was
downregulated in HCC tissues and cells. miR-29a inhibitor abolished the positive 
effects of SEVO on the biological processes. Dual-Luciferase Reporter assay
showed miR-29a repressed Dnmt3a expression via targeting its 3'-untranslated
region. Further, exogenous expression of Dnmt3a partially repressed PTEN and
enhanced phosphorylated expression of PI3K and AKT which were originally elevated
or diminished by SEVO. In conclusion, SEVO restored the expression of miR-29a,
which posttranscriptionally downregulated Dnmt3a, and then exhibited an antitumor
property in HCC cells.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.29121 
PMID: 31190353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Clin Lab. 2019 May 1;65(5). doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2018.181012.

MicroRNA-29-3p Regulates Hepatocellular Carcinoma Progression Through NF-κB
Pathway.

Ma JH, Bu X, Wang JJ, Xie YX.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver
cancer and accounts for over 90% of all primary liver cancers. Increasing
evidence suggests that microRNAs (miRNAs) mediate signaling pathways by gene
expression regulation.
METHODS: In this study, we evaluated the role of miR-29a-3p in HCC progression.
MiR-29a-3p was found significantly down-regulated in HCC tissues compared to
adjacent non-tumor tissues. Meantime, PTEN expression was up-regulated in HCC
tissues. Moreover, NF-κB activity was decreased following PTEN up-regulation.
RESULTS: In vitro assays in the HCC cell line BEL7402 demonstrated that
miR-29a-3p suppresses cell proliferation.
CONCLUSIONS: miR-29a-3p participates in the HCC progression by regulation of
NF-κB pathway via targeting PTEN.

DOI: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2018.181012 
PMID: 31115237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2019 May 3;38(1):183. doi: 10.1186/s13046-019-1177-0.

LncRNA SNHG1 contributes to sorafenib resistance by activating the Akt pathway
and is positively regulated by miR-21 in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.

Li W(1)(2), Dong X(1), He C(3), Tan G(2), Li Z(1), Zhai B(1)(2), Feng J(2), Jiang
X(1), Liu C(2), Jiang H(1), Sun X(4).

Author information: 
(1)The Hepatosplenic Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, 150001, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, 150001, China.
(3)Department of Surgery, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical
University, Harbin, China.
(4)The Hepatosplenic Surgery Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, 150001, China. sunxueying@hrbmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Acquired resistance to sorafenib greatly limits its therapeutic
efficiency in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Increasing
evidence indicates that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play important roles in the
resistance to anti-cancer drugs. The present study aims to explore the
involvement of lncRNA SNHG1 (small nucleolar RNA host gene 1) in sorafenib
resistance and how SNHG1 is associated with overexpressed microRNA-21 (miR-21)
and the activated Akt pathway, which have been demonstrated to mediate this
resistance in HCC cells.
METHODS: Sorafenib-resistant HCC (SR-HCC) cells were generated and their
sorafenib-resistant properties were confirmed by cell viability and apoptosis
assays. Potential lncRNAs were screened by using multiple bioinformatics analyses
and databases. The expression of genes and proteins was detected by qRT-PCR,
Western blot and in situ hybridization. Gene silencing was achieved by specific
siRNA or lncRNA Smart Silencer. The effects of anti-SNHG1 were evaluated in vitro
and in experimental animals by using quantitative measures of cell proliferation,
apoptosis and autophagy. The binding sites of miR-21 and SNHG1 were predicted by 
using the RNAhybrid algorithm and their interaction was verified by luciferase
assays.
RESULTS: The Akt pathway was highly activated by overexpressed miR-21 in SR-HCC
cells compared with parental HCC cells. Among ten screened candidates, SNHG1
showed the largest folds of alteration between SR-HCC and parental cells and
between vehicle- and sorafenib-treated cells. Overexpressed SNHG1 contributes to 
sorafenib resistance by activating the Akt pathway via regulating SLC3A2.
Depletion of SNHG1 enhanced the efficacy of sorafenib to induce apoptosis and
autophagy of SR-HCC cells by inhibiting the activation of Akt pathway. Sorafenib 
induced translocation of miR-21 to the nucleus, where it promoted the expression 
of SNHG1, resulting in upregulation of SLC3A2, leading to the activation of Akt
pathway. In contrast, SNHG1 was shown to have little effect on the expression of 
miR-21, which downregulated the expression of PTEN, leading to the activation of 
the Akt pathway independently of SNHG1.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study has demonstrated that lncRNA SNHG1 contributes to 
sorafenib resistance by activating the Akt pathway and its nuclear expression is 
promoted by miR-21, whose nuclear translocation is induced by sorafenib. These
results indicate that SNHG1 may represent a potentially valuable target for
overcoming sorafenib resistance for HCC.

DOI: 10.1186/s13046-019-1177-0 
PMCID: PMC6499991
PMID: 31053148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Hepatology. 2019 Jul;70(1):241-258. doi: 10.1002/hep.30607. Epub 2019 Apr 25.

Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress Causes Liver Cancer Cells to Release Exosomal
miR-23a-3p and Up-regulate Programmed Death Ligand 1 Expression in Macrophages.

Liu J(1)(2), Fan L(1), Yu H(1), Zhang J(1), He Y(3), Feng D(3), Wang F(1), Li
X(1), Liu Q(1), Li Y(1), Guo Z(1), Gao B(3), Wei W(4), Wang H(1)(5), Sun G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical
University, Hefei, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical
University, Hefei, China.
(3)Laboratory of Liver Diseases, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
(4)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(5)Institute for Liver Diseases of Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.

Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress promotes tumor cell escape from
immunosurveillance. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. We
hypothesized that ER stress induces hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells to
release exosomes, which attenuate antitumor immunity by modulating the expression
of programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) in macrophages. In this study, we
demonstrated that expression of several ER stress markers (glucose-regulated
protein 78, activating transcription factor 6, protein kinase R-like ER kinase,
and inositol-requiring enzyme 1α) was up-regulated in HCC tissues and negatively 
correlated with the overall survival and clinicopathological scores in patients
with HCC. Expression of ER stress-related proteins positively correlated with
CD68+ macrophage recruitment and PD-L1 expression in HCC tissues. High-throughput
sequencing analysis identified miR-23a-3p as one of the most abundant microRNAs
in exosomes derived from tunicamycin (TM)-treated HCC cells (Exo-TMs). miR-23a-3p
levels in HCC tissues negatively correlated with overall survival. Treatment with
Exo-TMs up-regulated the expression of PD-L1 in macrophages in vitro and in vivo.
Bioinformatics analysis suggests that miR-23a-3p regulates PD-L1 expression
through the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)-phosphatidylinositol
3-kinase-protein kinase B (AKT) pathway. This notion was confirmed by in vitro
transfection and coculture experiments, which revealed that miR-23a-3p inhibited 
PTEN expression and subsequently elevated phosphorylated AKT and PD-L1 expression
in macrophages. Finally, coculture of T cells with Exo-TM-stimulated macrophages 
decreased CD8+ T-cell ratio and interleukin-2 production but increased T-cell
apoptosis in vitro. Conclusion: ER-stressed HCC cells release exosomes to
up-regulate PD-L1 expression in macrophages, which subsequently inhibits T-cell
function through an exosome miR-23a-PTEN-AKT pathway. Our findings provide
insight into the mechanism how tumor cells escape from antitumor immunity.

© 2019 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.30607 
PMCID: PMC6597282
PMID: 30854665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Oncol Lett. 2019 Mar;17(3):2931-2936. doi: 10.3892/ol.2019.9925. Epub 2019 Jan
14.

MicroRNA-20b promotes proliferation of H22 hepatocellular carcinoma cells by
targeting PTEN.

He J(1), Mu M(1), Luo Y(1), Wang H(1), Ma H(1), Guo S(1), Fang Q(2), Qian Z(1),
Lu H(1)(3), Song C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Bengbu Medical College, and Anhui Key Laboratory of 
Infection and Immunity at Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui 233030, P.R.
China.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Bengbu Medical College, and Anhui
Key Laboratory of Infection and Immunity at Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui
233030, P.R. China.
(3)Clinical Laboratory, The First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu Medical College, 
Bengbu, Anhui 233004, P.R. China.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) are small, noncoding RNA molecules that are closely
associated with the occurrence and development of tumors. miR-20b is
overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines and tissues. However, it is 
not clear whether miR-20b can promote the proliferation of hepatocellular
carcinoma cells. In the present study, the proliferation of H22 mouse
hepatocellular carcinoma cells was detected using the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay. 
MiRanda software was used to predict the binding sites of miR-20b to the
3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN). The
3'-UTR sequence of the PTEN gene was amplified using the polymerase chain
reaction in H22 cells. The recombinant plasmid or empty plasmid was
co-transfected with miR-20b mimics or miR-20b scramble into HeLa cells, and
luciferase activity was assessed by Dual-Luciferase® Reporter Assay System 24 h
post-transfection. In the present study, miR-20b knockdown significantly
inhibited the proliferation of H22 mouse hepatocellular carcinoma cells. In
addition, miR-20b inhibition upregulated the expression of PTEN, and it was
revealed that miR-20b may directly target the 3'-untranslated region of the PTEN 
gene. Downregulation of PTEN partially reversed the anti-proliferative effect of 
miR-20b on H22 cells. In conclusion, miR-20b may promote H22 cell proliferation
by targeting PTEN, providing a rationale for further study investigating novel
therapeutic strategies for liver cancer.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2019.9925 
PMCID: PMC6365969
PMID: 30854070 


29. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Dec 27;37(1):324. doi: 10.1186/s13046-018-0965-2.

Hepatocellular carcinoma-derived exosomal miRNA-21 contributes to tumor
progression by converting hepatocyte stellate cells to cancer-associated
fibroblasts.

Zhou Y(1), Ren H(1), Dai B(1), Li J(1), Shang L(1), Huang J(2), Shi X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Affiliated Drum Tower Hospital of Nanjing
University Medical School, 321, Zhongshan Road, Nanjing, 210008, Jiangsu
Province, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Biobank, Nantong University Affiliated Hospital, 20,
Xisi Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu Province, China. jfhuang@ntu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Affiliated Drum Tower Hospital of Nanjing
University Medical School, 321, Zhongshan Road, Nanjing, 210008, Jiangsu
Province, China. njsxl2018@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a global challenge due to its 
high morbidity and mortality rates as well as poor response to treatment. The
communication between tumor-derived elements and stroma plays a critical role in 
facilitating cancer progression of HCC. Exosomes are small extracellular vesicles
(EVs) that are released from the cells upon fusion of multivesicular bodies with 
the plasma membrane. There is emerging evidence indicating that exosomes play a
central role in cell-to-cell communication. Much attention has been paid to
exosomes since they are found to transport bioactive proteins, messenger RNA
(mRNAs) and microRNA (miRNAs) that can be transferred in active form to adjacent 
cells or to distant organs. However, the mechanisms underlying such cancer
progression remain largely unexplored.
METHODS: Exosomes were isolated by differential ultracentrifugation from
conditioned medium of HCC cells and identified by electron microscopy and Western
blotting analysis. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were treated with different
concentrations of exosomes, and the activation of HSCs was analyzed by Western
blotting analysis, wound healing, migration assay, Edu assay, CCK-8 assay and
flow cytometry. Moreover, the different miRNA levels of exosomes were tested by
real-time quantitative PCR (RT-PCR). The angiogenic ability of activated HSCs was
analyzed by qRT-PCR, CCK-8 assay and tube formation assay. In addition, the
abnormal lipid metabolism of activated HSCs was analyzed by Western blotting
analysis and Oil Red staining. Finally, the relationship between serum exosomal
miRNA-21 and prognosis of HCC patients was evaluated.
RESULTS: We showed that HCC cells exhibited a great capacity to convert normal
HSCs to cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Moreover, our data revealed that
HCC cells secreted exosomal miRNA-21 that directly targeted PTEN, leading to
activation of PDK1/AKT signaling in HSCs. Activated CAFs further promoted cancer 
progression by secreting angiogenic cytokines, including VEGF, MMP2, MMP9, bFGF
and TGF-β. Clinical data indicated that high level of serum exosomal miRNA-21 was
correlated with greater activation of CAFs and higher vessel density in HCC
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Intercellular crosstalk between tumor cells and HSCs was mediated by
tumor-derived exosomes that controlled progression of HCC. Our findings provided 
potential targets for prevention and treatment of live cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/s13046-018-0965-2 
PMCID: PMC6307162
PMID: 30591064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Gene. 2018 Dec 15;678:302-311. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.08.022. Epub 2018 Aug 8.

BMI1 and PTEN are key determinants of breast cancer therapy: A plausible
therapeutic target in breast cancer.

M JR(1), S V(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical and Biotechnology, SASTRA Deemed University,
Tirumalaisamudram, Thanjavur 613401, India. Electronic address:
janakiramaiah@scbt.sastra.edu.
(2)School of Chemical and Biotechnology, SASTRA Deemed University,
Tirumalaisamudram, Thanjavur 613401, India.

BMI-1 (B-lymphoma Mo-MLV insertion region 1) is a key protein partner in polycomb
repressive complex 1 (PRC1) that helps in maintaining the integrity of the
complex. It is also a key player in ubiquitination of histone H2A which affects
gene expression pattern involved in various cellular processes such as cell
proliferation, growth, DNA repair, apoptosis and senescence. In many cancers,
Overexpression of BMI1correlates with advanced stages of disease, aggressive
clinicopathological behavior, poor prognosis resistance to radiation and
chemotherapy. BMI1 is emerging as a key player in EMT, chemo-resistance and
cancer stemness. Overexpression is observed in various cancer types such as
breast, primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), gastric, ovarian, head and neck, 
pancreatic and lung cancer. Studies have shown that experimental reduction of BMI
protein level in tumor cells results in inhibition of cell proliferation,
induction of apoptosis and/or senescence, and increases susceptibility to
cytotoxic agents and radiation therapy. Thus, inhibition of BMI1 expression
particularly in breast cancer stem cells can be used as a potential strategy for 
the complete elimination of tumor and to prevent disease relapse. On other hand
PTEN is known to be an important tumor suppressor next to p53. In many cancers
particularly in breast cancer, p53 and PTEN undergo mutations. Studies have
indicated the functional and mechanistic link between the BMI-1oncoprotein and
tumor suppressor PTEN in the development and progression of cancer. The current
review focuses on recent findings of how oncogenicity and chemo-resistance are
caused by BMI1. It also highlights the transcriptional regulation between BMI1
and PTEN that dictates the therapeutic outcome in cancers where the functional
p53 is absent. Herein, we have clearly demonstrated the regulation of
transcription at genomic loci of BMI1 and PTEN in cancerous tissue or cells and
the possible epigenetic regulation by histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) at
BMI1 and PTEN loci that may provide some clue for the possible therapy against
TNBC in near future.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.08.022 
PMID: 30096458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Hepatol Commun. 2018 Jul 12;2(8):941-955. doi: 10.1002/hep4.1197. eCollection
2018 Aug.

A Survey of Molecular Heterogeneity in Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Jovel J(1), Lin Z(1), O'keefe S(1), Willows S(1), Wang W(1), Zhang G(1),
Patterson J(1), Moctezuma-Velázquez C(1), Kelvin DJ(2), Ka-Shu Wong G(1)(3)(4),
Mason AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine University of Alberta Edmonton Canada.
(2)Division of Experimental Therapeutics University Health Network Toronto
Canada.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences University of Alberta Edmonton Canada.
(4)BGI-Shenzhen Shenzhen China.

Understanding the heterogeneity of dysregulated pathways associated with the
development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may provide prognostic and
therapeutic avenues for disease management. As HCC involves a complex process of 
genetic and epigenetic modifications, we evaluated expression of both
polyadenylated transcripts and microRNAs from HCC and liver samples derived from 
two cohorts of patients undergoing either partial hepatic resection or liver
transplantation. Copy number variants were inferred from whole genome low-pass
sequencing data, and a set of 56 cancer-related genes were screened using an
oncology panel assay. HCC was associated with marked transcriptional deregulation
of hundreds of protein-coding genes. In the partially resected livers, diminished
transcriptional activity was observed in genes associated with drug catabolism
and increased expression in genes related to inflammatory responses and cell
proliferation. Moreover, several long noncoding RNAs and microRNAs not previously
linked with HCC were found to be deregulated. In liver transplant recipients,
down-regulation of genes involved in energy production and up-regulation of genes
associated with glycolysis were detected. Numerous copy number variants events
were observed, with hotspots on chromosomes 1 and 17. Amplifications were more
common than deletions and spanned regions containing genes potentially involved
in tumorigenesis. Colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R), fibroblast growth
factor receptor 3 (FGFR3), fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3), nucleolar
phosphoprotein B23 (NPM1), platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha
polypeptide (PDGFRA), phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), G-protein-coupled
receptors-like receptor Smoothened (SMO), and tumor protein P53 (TP53) were
mutated in all tumors; another 26 cancer-related genes were mutated with variable
penetrance. Conclusion: Our results underscore the marked molecular heterogeneity
between HCC tumors and reinforce the notion that precision medicine approaches
are needed for management of individual HCC. These data will serve as a resource 
to generate hypotheses for further research to improve our understanding of HCC
biology. (Hepatology Communications 2018; 00:000-000).

DOI: 10.1002/hep4.1197 
PMCID: PMC6078210
PMID: 30094405 


32. Yonsei Med J. 2018 Sep;59(7):816-826. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2018.59.7.816.

XIST Induced by JPX Suppresses Hepatocellular Carcinoma by Sponging miR-155-5p.

Lin XQ(1), Huang ZM(1), Chen X(1), Wu F(1), Wu W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China. uynixoahzday@sina.com.

PURPOSE: The influence of X-inactive specific transcript (XIST) and X-chromosome 
inactivation associated long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) just proximal to XIST
(JPX) on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains controversial in light of
previous reports, which the present study aimed to verify.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The DIANA lncRNA-microRNA (miRNA) interaction database was
used to explore miRNA interactions with JPX or XIST. JPX, XIST, and miR-155-5p
expression levels in paired HCC specimens and adjacent normal tissue were
analyzed by RT-qPCR. Interaction between XIST and miR-155-5p was verified by dual
luciferase reporter assay. Expression levels of miR-155-5p and its known target
genes, SOX6 and PTEN, were verified by RT-qPCR and Western blot in HepG2 cells
with or without XIST knock-in. The potential suppressive role of XIST and JPX on 
HCC was verified by cell functional assays and tumor formation assay using a
xenograft model.
RESULTS: JPX and XIST expression was significantly decreased in HCC pathologic
specimens, compared to adjacent tissue, which correlated with HCC progression and
increased miR-155-5p expression. Dual luciferase reporter assay revealed XIST as 
a direct target of miR-155-5p. XIST knock-in significantly reduced miR-155-5p
expression level and increased that of SOX6 and PTEN, while significantly
inhibiting HepG2 cell growth in vitro, which was partially reversed by miR-155-5p
mimic transfection. JPX knock-in significantly increased XIST expression and
inhibited HepG2 cell growth in vitro or tumor formation in vivo in a XIST
dependent manner.
CONCLUSION: JPX and XIST play a suppressive role in HCC. JPX increases expression
levels of XIST in HCC cells, which suppresses HCC development by sponging the
cancer promoting miR-155-5p.

© Copyright: Yonsei University College of Medicine 2018.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2018.59.7.816 
PMCID: PMC6082978
PMID: 30091314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflicts of
interest.


33. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Sep;105:1147-1154. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.097.
Epub 2018 Jun 21.

microRNA-19a-3p promotes tumor metastasis and chemoresistance through the
PTEN/Akt pathway in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Jiang XM(1), Yu XN(2), Liu TT(2), Zhu HR(2), Shi X(2), Bilegsaikhan E(2), Guo
HY(2), Song GQ(2), Weng SQ(2), Huang XX(3), Dong L(2), Janssen HLA(4), Shen
XZ(5), Zhu JM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital of Fudan University,
Shanghai, China; Department of Gastroenterology, Central South University Xiangya
School of Medicine Affiliated Haikou Hospital, Haikou, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital of Fudan University,
Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Central South University Xiangya School of
Medicine Affiliated Haikou Hospital, Haikou, China.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Toronto & University Health
Network, Toronto, Canada.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital of Fudan University,
Shanghai, China; Shanghai Institute of Liver Disease, Shanghai, China; Key
Laboratory of Medical Molecular Virology, Shanghai Medical College of Fudan
University, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital of Fudan University,
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: zhu.jimin@zs-hospital.sh.cn.

microRNA-19a-3p (miR-19a-3p) has been reported to regulate cell proliferation in 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its role in HCC metastasis remains unknown.
In this study, miR-19a-3p was noted to be upregulated in HCC specimens and cell
lines. Aberrant expression of miR-19a-3p stimulated HCC cell metastasis, and
phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) was shown to be a direct target of
miR-19a-3p. miR-19a-3p-mediated HCC metastasis was reversed by restoration of
PTEN or could be imitated by silencing of PTEN. Modulation of miR-19a-3p also
altered expression of phosphorylated Akt, a downstream mediator of PTEN.
Moreover, aberrant expression of miR-19a-3p induced sorafenib resistance by
regulating the PTEN/Akt pathway. In conclusion, ectopic expression of miR-19a-3p 
contributes to HCC metastasis and chemoresistance by modulating PTEN expression
and the PTEN-dependent pathways.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.097 
PMID: 30021351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2018 Aug;32(8):e22167. doi: 10.1002/jbt.22167. Epub 2018
Jul 3.

MicroRNA-760 Inhibits Doxorubicin Resistance in Hepatocellular Carcinoma through 
Regulating Notch1/Hes1-PTEN/Akt Signaling Pathway.

Tian T(1), Fu X(1), Lu J(2), Ruan Z(1), Nan K(1), Yao Y(1), Yang Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, P.R. China.
(2)Clinical Research Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, P.R. China.
(3)The Third Department of Cardiology, Shaanxi Provincial People's Hospital,
Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, P.R. China.

Accumulating studies have suggested that microRNA-760 (miR-760) plays an
important role in chemoresistance of various cancer cells. However, whether
miR-760 regulates the chemoresistance of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains
unclear. In this study, we found that miR-760 was decreased in HCC cell lines,
and doxorubicin (Dox) treatment significantly decreased miR-760 expression in HCC
cells. Overexpression of miR-760 sensitized HCC cells to Dox-induced cytotoxicity
and apoptosis, whereas miR-760 inhibition showed the opposite effects. Notch1 was
predicted as a target gene of miR-760. miR-760 negatively regulated Notch1
expression and Notch1/Hes1 signaling. Overexpression of miR-760 increased PTEN
expression and decreased the phosphorylation of Akt. Activation of Notch
signaling significantly reversed the inhibitory effect of miR-760 on
Dox-resistance and abrogated the effect of miR-760 on the PTEN/Akt signaling
pathway in HCC cells. Overall, our results demonstrate that miR-760 inhibits
Dox-resistance in HCC cells through inhibiting Notch1 and promoting PTEN
expression.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.22167 
PMID: 29968951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Mol Pharm. 2018 Sep 4;15(9):3767-3776. doi: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00046.
Epub 2018 Aug 23.

Reverse Multidrug Resistance in Human HepG2/ADR by Anti-miR-21 Combined with
Hyperthermia Mediated by Functionalized Gold Nanocages.

Wang W(1), Huang S(1), Yuan J(1), Xu X(1), Li H(1), Lv Z(1), Yu W(1), Duan
S(2)(3), Hu Y(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Henan Province Key Laboratory of Targeting Therapy and Diagnosis for Critical 
Diseases, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences , Zhengzhou University , No. 100
Science Avenue , Zhengzhou , Henan 450001 , P. R. China.
(2)College of Pharmacy , Henan University , Jin Ming Avenue , Kaifeng , Henan
475004 , P. R. China.
(3)Department of Orthopedics , The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou
University , 1 Construction Road , Zhengzhou 450052 , P. R. China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Key Technology of Drug Preparation, Ministry of Education,
Institute of Drug Discovery & Development , Zhengzhou University , No. 100
Science Avenue , Zhengzhou , Henan 450001 , P. R. China.

Multidrug resistance (MDR) remains a formidable challenge to effective clinical
cancer therapy. Herein, a nonviral gene delivery system HA/anti-miR-21/PPAuNCs to
overcome MDR was reported. This system could condense the microRNA-21 inhibitor
(anti-miR-21) into hyaluronic acid-conjugated and polyethylenimine-modified
PEGylated gold nanocages (AuNCs) and had good stability. In vitro studies
demonstrated that HA/anti-miR-21/PPAuNCs could enhance intracellular DOX
accumulation in DOX-resistant HCC cells (HepG2/ADR cells) and increase the
sensitivity to DOX of HepG2/ADR cells through upregulating PTEN protein
expression mediated by anti-miR-21 and downregulating P-gp protein expression
mediated by the hyperthermia of HA/PPAuNCs upon mild near-infrared irradiation.
Furthermore, the therapeutic effects had been enhanced due to the combination of 
chemotherapy, gene therapy, and photothermal therapy. Besides,
HA/anti-miR-21/PPAuNCs have a good biocompatibility. These findings can provide
new insights and strategies for the treatment of cancers with MDR.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00046 
PMID: 29966415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Mar 12;37(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s13046-018-0677-7.

Exosomal microRNA-32-5p induces multidrug resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma 
via the PI3K/Akt pathway.

Fu X(1), Liu M(1), Qu S(1), Ma J(1), Zhang Y(1), Shi T(1), Wen H(1)(2), Yang
Y(3), Wang S(1), Wang J(1), Nan K(1), Yao Y(4), Tian T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an
Jiaotong University, No. 277 Yanta West Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710061, People's
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Respiratory, Third Hospital of Xi'an, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710018,
People's Republic of China.
(3)The Third Department of Cardiology, Shaanxi Provincial People's Hospital,
Xi'an, Shaanxi province, 710068, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an
Jiaotong University, No. 277 Yanta West Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710061, People's
Republic of China. 13572101611@163.com.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an
Jiaotong University, No. 277 Yanta West Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710061, People's
Republic of China. tiantao0607@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Multidrug resistance is the main obstacle for hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC) treatment. miR-32-5p is involved in HCC progression but its
function in multidrug resistance is still unclear. Here we aim to find out the
function of miR-32-5p in inducing multidrug resistance and its underlying
mechanisms of transforming sensitive cell to resistant cell.
METHODS: We detected the expression of miR-32-5p and PTEN in the
multidrug-resistant cell line (Bel/5-FU) and the sensitive cell line (Bel7402),
HCC and para-carcinoma liver tissues through real-time PCR. Dual-luciferase
reporter assay verified PTEN is the target of miR-32-5p. Exosomes from sensitive 
and multidrug resistant cell line were obtained and confirmed through
ultracentrifuge and Nano Analyzer. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments, rescue
experiments, a PI3K/Akt pathway inhibitor, an exosome biogenesis inhibitor, and
nude mice xenograft models were used to determine the underlying mechanisms of
miR-32-5p and PTEN, as well as exosomal miR-32-5p in inducing multidrug
resistance in vitro and in vivo.
RESULTS: miR-32-5p was significantly elevated but PTEN was reduced in Bel/5-FU.
An inverse correlation between miR-32-5p and PTEN was confirmed in HCC cell lines
and patients; moreover, high expression of miR-32-5p and low expression of PTEN
were positively associated with poor prognosis. Over-expression of miR-32-5p
activated the PI3K/Akt pathway by suppressing PTEN and induced multidrug
resistance via exosomes through promoting angiogenesis and epithelial-mesenchymal
transition (EMT).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that the multidrug-resistant cell, Bel/5-FU
delivers miR-32-5p to sensitive cell, Bel7402 by exosomes and activates the
PI3K/Akt pathway to further induce multidrug resistance by modulating
angiogenesis and EMT.

DOI: 10.1186/s13046-018-0677-7 
PMCID: PMC5846230
PMID: 29530052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Mar 9;37(1):51. doi: 10.1186/s13046-018-0698-2.

C-Myc-dependent repression of two oncogenic miRNA clusters contributes to
triptolide-induced cell death in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.

Li SG(1)(2), Shi QW(1)(3), Yuan LY(4), Qin LP(1), Wang Y(4), Miao YQ(4), Chen
Z(1), Ling CQ(5), Qin WX(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Changhai Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, General Hospital of Wuhan, People's Liberation
Army, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(3)Guang An' men Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing,
People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of oncology, Changzheng Hospital, Second Military Medical
University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(5)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Changhai Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
lingchangquan@hotmail.com.
(6)Department of oncology, Changzheng Hospital, Second Military Medical
University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. qinwenxing@smmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Triptolide is a structurally unique diterpene triepoxide with potent 
antitumor activity. However,the effect and mechanism of triptolide on
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is not well studied.
METHODS: Cells were treated with triptolide, and the anti-HCC activity of
triptolide was evaluated using flow cytometry, western blot, and xenograft
studies. MicroRNA microarray and quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase
chain reaction was used to identify differential microRNAs induced by triptolide.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was employed to study the interaction between
c-Myc and genomic regions of miR106b-25. MicroRNAs overexpression and knockdown
experiments were performed to determine the role of these microRNAs in
triptolide-induced apoptosis.
RESULTS: Triptolide inhibited cell proliferation and induced marked apoptosis in 
multiple HCC cell lines with different p53 status. Several signaling molecules
involved in different pathways were altered after the treatment of triptolide.
Xenograft tumor volume was significantly reduced in triptolide-treated group
compared with vehicle control group. Two miRNA clusters, miR-17-92 and
miR-106b-25, were significantly suppressed by triptolide, which resulted in the
upregulation of their common target genes, including BIM, PTEN, and p21. In HCC
samples, high levels of these miRNA clusters correlated with shorter recurrence
free survival. Triptolide inhibited the expression of theses miRNAs in a
c-Myc-dependent manner, which enhanced triptolide-induced cell death. We further 
showed that triptolide down-regulated the expression of c-Myc through targeting
ERCC3, a newly identified triptolide-binding protein.
CONCLUSIONS: The triptolide-induced modulation of c-Myc/miRNA clusters/target
genes axis enhances its potent antitumor activity, which indicates that
triptolide serves as an attractive chemotherapeutic agent against HCC.

DOI: 10.1186/s13046-018-0698-2 
PMCID: PMC5845216
PMID: 29523159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Mol Med Rep. 2018 Apr;17(4):5193-5201. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2018.8515. Epub 2018 Jan 
29.

Pterostilbene increases PTEN expression through the targeted downregulation of
microRNA-19a in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Qian YY(1), Liu ZS(1), Zhang Z(2), Levenson AS(3), Li K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan
University, Wuhan, Hubei 430071, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Saint Louis University, St. Louis, 
MO 63103, USA.
(3)Cancer Institute, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, MS 39762,
USA.

Pterostilbene (Pter) is reported to exhibit an anticancer effect in
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In order to explore the anticancer mechanism in
HCC cells, the present study aimed to investigate whether pterostilbene (Pter)
may increase phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression through targeted
downregulation of microRNA (miRNA/miR)-19a in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The
proliferation, apoptosis and cell cycle was analyzed in the SMMC‑7721 HCC cell
line by MTT assays and flow cytometry methods. Cells were divided into five
treatment groups: Pter treatment, miR‑19a inhibitor transfection, Pter + miR‑19a 
inhibitor, negative control transfection and blank control. The expression of
miR‑19a and PTEN was detected by reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase
chain reaction and western blot analysis following treatment. Furthermore, a
luciferase reporter gene assay was performed to determine whether the PTEN gene
was a direct target of miR‑19a. The results demonstrated that Pter treatment or
miR‑19a inhibitor transfection downregulated miR‑19a and induced PTEN/Akt pathway
regulation, which led to proliferation inhibition, cell cycle arrest in the S
phase, increased apoptosis and reduced cell invasion. These results indicated
that Pter may increase PTEN expression through the direct downregulation of
miR‑19a in HCC. Therefore, miR‑19a may have potential as a novel molecular marker
for HCC and Pter may be a promising clinical target with the potential to be
developed as a HCC therapy.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.8515 
PMCID: PMC5865985
PMID: 29393488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Cell Death Dis. 2018 Jan 5;9(1):4. doi: 10.1038/s41419-017-0076-6.

The epigenetically regulated miR-494 associates with stem-cell phenotype and
induces sorafenib resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Pollutri D(1), Patrizi C(2), Marinelli S(1), Giovannini C(1)(3), Trombetta E(4), 
Giannone FA(1)(3), Baldassarre M(1)(3), Quarta S(5), Vandewynckel YP(6),
Vandierendonck A(6), Van Vlierberghe H(6), Porretti L(4), Negrini M(7), Bolondi
L(1)(3), Gramantieri L(8), Fornari F(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Applied Biomedical Research, St. Orsola-Malpighi University
Hospital, 40138, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Modena
and Reggio Emilia University, 41125, Modena, Italy.
(3)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Bologna University, 40138,
Bologna, Italy.
(4)Flow Cytometry Service, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore
Policlinico, 20122, Milan, Italy.
(5)Department of Medicine, Padua University, 35128, Padua, Italy.
(6)Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Ghent University, 9000, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(7)Department of Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine, University of
Ferrara, 44100, Ferrara, Italy.
(8)Center for Applied Biomedical Research, St. Orsola-Malpighi University
Hospital, 40138, Bologna, Italy. laura.gramantieri@aosp.bo.it.
(9)Center for Applied Biomedical Research, St. Orsola-Malpighi University
Hospital, 40138, Bologna, Italy. francesca.fornari2@unibo.it.
(10)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Bologna University, 40138,
Bologna, Italy. francesca.fornari2@unibo.it.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents the second cause of cancer-related
mortality worldwide and is associated with poor prognosis, especially in patients
not amenable for curative treatments. The multi-kinase inhibitor sorafenib
represents the first-line treatment option for advanced HCC; nevertheless, its
effectiveness is limited due to tumor heterogeneity as well as innate or acquired
drug resistance, raising the need for new therapeutic strategies. MicroRNAs
(miRNAs) involvement in treatment response as well as their safety and efficacy
in preclinical models and clinical trials have been widely documented in the
oncologic field, including HCC. Here, we identified miR-494 upregulation in a
subgroup of human and rat HCCs with stem cell-like characteristics, as well as
multiple epigenetic mechanisms involved in its aberrant expression in HCC cell
lines and patients. Moreover, we identified p27, puma and pten among miR-494
targets, contributing to speed up cell cycle progression, enhance survival
potential in stressful conditions and increase invasive and clonogenic
capabilities. MiR-494 overexpression increased sorafenib resistance via mTOR
pathway activation in HCC cell lines and, in line, high miR-494 levels associated
with decreased sorafenib response in two HCC animal models. A sorafenib-combined 
anti-miR-494-based strategy revealed an enhanced anti-tumor potential with
respect to sorafenib-only treatment in our HCC rat model. In conclusion, our
findings suggested miR-494 as a possible therapeutic target as well as a
candidate biomarker for patient stratification in advanced HCC.

DOI: 10.1038/s41419-017-0076-6 
PMCID: PMC5849044
PMID: 29305580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Oncotarget. 2017 Aug 1;8(51):88517-88528. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.19774.
eCollection 2017 Oct 24.

MicroRNA deregulation in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis-associated liver
carcinogenesis.

de Conti A(1), Ortega JF(1)(2), Tryndyak V(1), Dreval K(1), Moreno FS(2), Rusyn
I(3), Beland FA(1), Pogribny IP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biochemical Toxicology, National Center for Toxicological
Research, Jefferson, Arkansas, USA.
(2)Department of Food and Experimental Nutrition, Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Veterinary Integrative Biosciences, Texas A&M University,
College Station, Texas, USA.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fastest-rising cause of cancer-related
death in the United States. Recent epidemiological studies have identified
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a progressive form of nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD), as a major risk factor for HCC. Elucidating the underlying
mechanisms associated with the development of NASH-derived HCC is critical for
identifying early biomarkers for the progression of the disease and for treatment
and prevention. In the present study, using liver samples from C57BL/6J mice
submitted to the Stelic Animal Model (STAM) of NASH-associated liver
carcinogenesis, we investigated the role of microRNA (miRNA) alterations in the
pathogenesis of NASH-derived HCC. We found substantial alterations in the
expression of miRNAs, with the greatest number occurring in full-fledged HCC.
Mechanistically, altered miRNA expression was associated with activation of major
hepatocarcinogenesis-related pathways, including the TGF-β, Wnt/β-catenin,
ERK1/2, mTOR, and EGF signaling. In addition, the over-expression of the
miR-221-3p and miR-222-3p and oncogenic miR-106b∼25 cluster was accompanied by
the reduced protein levels of their targets, including E2F transcription factor 1
(E2F1), phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), and cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor 1 (CDKN1A). Importantly, miR-93-5p, miR-221-3p, and miR-222-3p were
also significantly over-expressed in human HCC. These findings suggest that
aberrant expression of miRNAs may have mechanistic significance in
NASH-associated liver carcinogenesis and may serve as an indicator for the
development of NASH-derived HCC.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.19774 
PMCID: PMC5687623
PMID: 29179453 

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors have no
conflicts of interest.


41. Am J Transl Res. 2017 Sep 15;9(9):4300-4307. eCollection 2017.

MicroRNA-205-5p regulates the chemotherapeutic resistance of hepatocellular
carcinoma cells by targeting PTEN/JNK/ANXA3 pathway.

Shao P(1), Qu WK(1), Wang CY(1), Tian Y(1), Ye ML(2), Sun DG(1), Sui JD(1), Wang 
LM(1), Fan R(3), Gao ZM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Department of Surgery, The
Second Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical UniversityDalian, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Separation Science for Analytical Chemistry, Dalian
Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of SciencesDalian, China.
(3)VIP Ward No. 2, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical
UniversityDalian, China.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignant tumor of the digestive
system, and patients with advanced HCC have a poor outlook, partly due to
resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs. Previous studies have implicated microRNAs 
in the regulation of chemoresistance, and we have previously shown that microRNA 
(miR)-205-5p is down-regulated in multiple hepatoma cell lines. Here, we
investigate whether miR-205-5p is involved in chemotherapeutic resistance in HCC.
Expression of miR-205-5p was measured by real-time quantitative reverse
transcription PCR and cell viability was determined using a CCK-8 cell viability 
assay. Expression of proteins in the PTEN/JNK/ANXA3 pathway were assessed via
Western blotting. We found that miR-205-5p expression was down-regulated in all
HCC cell lines investigated. In addition, miR-205-5p expression was upregulated
by 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) treatment in Bel-7402 (Bel) cells. Interestingly,
miR-205-5p expression was increased in multidrug-resistant Bel-7402/5-Fu (Bel/Fu)
cells, compared with Bel cells. We next demonstrated that sensitivity to 5-Fu was
increased in Bel/Fu cells after treatment with a miR-205-5p inhibitor. Similarly,
increased resistance to 5-Fu was observed in Bel cells after transfection with a 
miR-205-5p mimic. We injected nude mice with Bel/5-Fu cells to promote tumor
growth, and found that co-treatment with a miR-205-5p antagomir and 5-Fu slowed
tumor growth more than either treatment alone. Finally, we found that these
effects were all associated with changes in the PTEN/JNK/ANXA3 pathway. In
conclusion, inhibition of miR-205-5p may reverse chemotherapeutic resistance to
5-Fu, and this may occur via the PTEN/JNK/ANXA3 pathway.


PMCID: PMC5622272
PMID: 28979703 

Conflict of interest statement: None.


42. Breast Cancer. 2017 Jul;24(4):521-527. doi: 10.1007/s12282-017-0776-x. Epub 2017 
May 5.

The role of miR-130a in cancer.

Zhang HD(1)(2), Jiang LH(3), Sun DW(4), Li J(4), Ji ZL(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Southeast University Medical School, 87 Ding
Jia Qiao, Nanjing, 210009, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Institute for Minimally Invasive Surgery,
Zhongda Hospital Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Xuzhou Infectious Disease Hospital, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Nanjing Medical University Affiliated Cancer
Hospital, Cancer Institute of Jiangsu Province, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(5)Department of General Surgery, Southeast University Medical School, 87 Ding
Jia Qiao, Nanjing, 210009, Jiangsu, China. zhenlingji11@hotmail.com.
(6)Department of General Surgery, Institute for Minimally Invasive Surgery,
Zhongda Hospital Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
zhenlingji11@hotmail.com.

MicroRNAs (miRs) are short and highly conserved non-coding RNAs molecules
consisting of 18-25 nucleotides that regulate gene expression at
post-transcriptional level by direct binding to complementary binding sites
within the 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) of target mRNAs. New evidences have
demonstrated that miRNAs play an important role in diverse physiological
processes, including regulating cell growth, apoptosis, metastasis, drug
resistance, and invasion. In chromosomes 11 and 22 of the miR-130 family,
paralogous miRNA sequences, miR-130a and miR-130b are situated, respectively.
MiR-130a has participated in different pathogenesis, including hepatocellular
carcinoma, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, glioblastoma, prostate carcinoma,
leukemia, etc. Most important of all, more and more evidences indicate that
miR-130a is associated with drug resistance and acts as an intermediate in
PI3 K/Akt/PTEN/mTOR, Wnt/β-catenin and NF-kB/PTEN drug resistance signaling
pathways. Drug resistance has emerged as a major obstacle to successful treatment
of cancer nowadays and in this review, we will reveal the function of miR-130a in
cancer, especially in drug resistance. Therefore, it will provide a new
therapeutic target for the treatment of cancer, especially in chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-017-0776-x 
PMID: 28477068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Oncotarget. 2017 May 9;8(19):31745-31757. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.15958.

MiR-425-5p promotes invasion and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma cells
through SCAI-mediated dysregulation of multiple signaling pathways.

Fang F(1), Song T(1), Zhang T(1), Cui Y(1), Zhang G(2), Xiong Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Cancer, Tianjin Medical University Cancer
Institute and Hospital, Ti-Yuan-Bei, Tianjin 300060, China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha
410008, Hunan, China.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play critical roles in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
progression and are key determinants of prognosis. In this study, we found that
miR-425-5p was elevated in HCC and correlated with poor prognostic
clinicopathological features and low post-operative long-term survival.
Multivariate survival analysis indicated that miR-425-5p expression was an
independent risk factor for overall and disease-free survival. Interestingly,
miR-425-5p promoted invasion and metastasis by HCC cells, but not HCC cell
proliferation or apoptosis in vitro. SCAI and PTEN were determined to be
downstream targets of miR-425-5p. miR-425-5p-mediated effects were inhibited by
ectopic expression of SCAI, and PTEN exhibited a smaller inhibitory effect. SCAI 
also suppressed PTEN expression. In addition, miR-425-5p promoted
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), which was antagonized by SCAI.
miR-425-5p also promoted HCC cell invasion and metastasis via SCAI-mediated
dysregulation of integrin β1-Fak/Src-RhoA/CDC42, PTEN-AKT, and TIMP2-MMP2/MMP9
signaling. Finally, miR-425-5p promoted metastasis in a xenograft mouse model of 
HCC. These results indicate that miR-425-5p facilitates EMT and extracellular
matrix degradation and promotes HCC metastasis through SCAI-mediated
dysregulation of multiple signaling pathways. MiR-425-5p is therefore a potential
prognostic biomarker and novel therapeutic target in HCC.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.15958 
PMCID: PMC5458244
PMID: 28423650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. BMC Cancer. 2017 Apr 7;17(1):248. doi: 10.1186/s12885-017-3216-6.

Long non-coding RNA XIST regulates PTEN expression by sponging miR-181a and
promotes hepatocellular carcinoma progression.

Chang S(1), Chen B(2), Wang X(1), Wu K(1), Sun Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Liver Disease, Ji'nan Infectious Disease Hospital, No. 22029
Jingshi Road, Ji'nan, Shandong, 250021, China.
(2)Healthy Food Laboratory, Shandong Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ji'nan, 
Shandong, 250101, China.
(3)Division of Liver Disease, Ji'nan Infectious Disease Hospital, No. 22029
Jingshi Road, Ji'nan, Shandong, 250021, China. sunyq1018@sina.com.

BACKGROUND: Tumor metastasis often occurs in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and
influences the patient's prognosis, and microRNAs are reported to play key roles 
in tumor metastasis. This study was conducted to explore the effect of microRNAs 
on HCC metastasis.
METHODS: The levels of miR-181a in HCC tissues, adjacent tissues, metastatic HCC 
tissues, and non-metastatic HCC tissues at different stages were determined by
qRT-PCR. Effect of miR-181a on the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of HCC
cells was estimated by cell counting kits-8 (CCK-8), wound-healing, and Transwell
assays. Software analysis and luciferase assays were used to explore the target
gene of miR-181a.
RESULTS: MiR-181a was up-regulated in HCC tissues and its expression level in
metastatic HCC tissues was much higher than in non-metastasis samples. PTEN was
found to be a target gene of miR-181a. MiR-181a had multiple binding sites with
the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) XIST. The regulation of miR-181a on PTEN was
mediated by lncRNA XIST. The proliferation and invasion of cells with siXIST were
significantly enhanced compared with those of control cells, while knockdown of
miR-181a abolished the enhancing effects.
CONCLUSIONS: MiR-181a can promote HCC metastasis by targeting PTEN, which is
regulated by lncRNA XIST.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-017-3216-6 
PMCID: PMC5383949
PMID: 28388883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Mol Med Rep. 2017 May;15(5):3285-3291. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2017.6363. Epub 2017 Mar 
23.

Hepatitis B virus X protein increases microRNA‑21 expression and accelerates the 
development of hepatoma via the phosphatase and tensin homolog/phosphoinositide
3‑kinase/protein kinase B signaling pathway.

Hou Z(1), Quan J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan 410008, P.R. China.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) X protein (HBx) is a key regulatory protein that is
involved in HBV infection, replication and carcinogenesis of hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC). The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of HBx 
in the progression and metastasis of liver cancer cells and to determine the
underlying molecular mechanism of HBx in metastatic liver cancer cells. HBx
protein expression was detected by western blot analysis, and microRNA (miR)‑21
levels were determined by reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain
reaction in the highly metastatic MHCC‑97H low metastatic MHCC‑97L and SMMC‑7721 
liver cancer cell lines. The results demonstrated that the levels of HBx and
miR‑21 were significantly increased in MHCC‑97H cells compared with MHCC‑97L and 
SMMC‑7721 cells. In addition, three pairs of small interfering (si)RNA specific
to HBx were designed and synthesized to interfere with endogenous HBx in liver
cancer cells, and the results demonstrated that knockdown HBx was associated with
a corresponding decrease in miR‑21 expression. The MTT assay results demonstrated
that cell viability significantly decreased in HBx‑siRNA cells compared with
scramble siRNA‑transfected cells. In addition, transfection with an miR‑21
inhibitor inhibited MHCC‑97H cell proliferation. Furthermore, Transwell assay
results revealed that downregulation of HBx and treatment with miR‑21 inhibitors 
contributed to the inhibition of MHCC‑97H cell invasion and metastasis. Western
blot analysis demonstrated that miR‑21 inhibitors and HBx‑siRNA treatment led to 
the upregulation of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), and decreased levels
of phosphoinositide 3‑kinase (PI3K), phosphorylated protein kinase B (Akt) and
matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)‑2. The results of the present study indicated that
HBx was positively associated with miR‑21 expression, and downregulation of
miR‑21 and HBx suppressed MMP‑2 activity via the PTEN/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.
Therefore, HBx and miR‑21 may represent novel therapeutic targets for the
treatment of HCC.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2017.6363 
PMID: 28339072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Oncotarget. 2017 Mar 14;8(11):18129-18144. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.15185.

OIP5, a target of miR-15b-5p, regulates hepatocellular carcinoma growth and
metastasis through the AKT/mTORC1 and β-catenin signaling pathways.

Li H(1), Zhang J(1), Lee MJ(1), Yu GR(1), Han X(2), Kim DG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
The Research Institute of Clinical Medicine, Biomedical Research Institute
Chonbuk National University Medical School and Hospital, Jeonju, Jeonbuk,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease, Yanbian University Hospital, Yanji, Jilin
Province, China.

Opa interacting protein 5 (OIP5) is upregulated in some types of human cancers,
but the biological implications of its upregulation have not yet been clarified
in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In this study, the signaling pathway
downstream of OIP5 was analyzed by proteome kinase profiling. A putative microRNA
targeting OIP5 was identified using a miRNA PCR array. Tumorigenicity and
metastatic ability were examined in an orthotopic animal model. OIP5 expression
was strongly detected in early and advanced tumors via gene expression profiling 
and immunohistochemical staining analyses. Cells with knockdown of OIP5 via
target shRNA exhibited reduced hepatic mass formation and metastatic tumor
nodules in an orthotopic mouse model. OIP5-induced AKT activation was mediated by
both mTORC2 and p38/PTEN activation. AKT activation was linked to mTORC1 and
GSK-3β/β-catenin signaling, which are primarily associated with tumor cell growth
and metastasis, respectively. miR-15b-5p, which targets OIP5, efficiently
inhibited OIP5-mediated mTORC1 and GSK-3β/β-catenin signaling. These findings
suggest that OIP5 may be involved in HCC growth and metastasis and that
miR-15b-5p inhibits OIP5-mediated oncogenic signaling in HCC.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.15185 
PMCID: PMC5392313
PMID: 28184024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Cancer Sci. 2017 Apr;108(4):620-631. doi: 10.1111/cas.13177. Epub 2017 Apr 19.

MicroRNA-155-5p promotes hepatocellular carcinoma progression by suppressing PTEN
through the PI3K/Akt pathway.

Fu X(1), Wen H(1)(2), Jing L(1), Yang Y(3), Wang W(1), Liang X(1), Nan K(1), Yao 
Y(1), Tian T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(2)Department of Respiratory, Third Hospital of Xi'an, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(3)The third Department of Cardiology, Shaanxi Provincial People's Hospital,
Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.

MicroRNA-155-5p (miR-155-5p) has been reported to play an oncogenic role in
different human malignancies; however, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
progression is not clearly understood. In this study, we used real-time PCR in
20 rats with chemically-induced HCC, 28 human HCC tissues, and the matched
paracarcinoma tissues, and HCC cell lines to determine the expression patterns of
miR-155-5p and PTEN mRNA. Algorithm-based and experimental strategies, such as
dual luciferase gene reporter assays, real-time PCR and western blots were used
to identify PTEN as a candidate miR-155-5p target. Gain- and loss-of-function
experiments and administration of a PI3K/Akt pathway inhibitor (wortmannin) were 
used to identify the effects of miR-155-5p and PTEN in MTT assays, flow
cytometric analysis, wound healing assays and transwell assays. The results
showed that miR-155-5p was highly overexpressed; however, PTEN was underexpressed
in the HCC rat models, human HCC tissues and cell lines. In addition, miR-155-5p 
upregulation and PTEN downregulation were significantly associated with TNM stage
(P < 0.05). Through in vitro experiments, we found that miR-155-5p promoted
proliferation, invasion and migration, but inhibited apoptosis in HCC by directly
targeting the 3'-UTR of PTEN. Western blots showed that miR-155-5p inactivated
Bax and caspase-9, but activated Bcl-2 to inhibit apoptosis, and it activated MMP
to promote migration and invasion via the PI3K/Akt pathway. A xenograft tumor
model was used to demonstrate that miR-155-5p targets PTEN and activates the
PI3K/Akt pathway in vivo as well. Our study highlighted the importance of
miR-155-5p and PTEN associated with aggressive HCC both in vitro and in vivo.

© 2017 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd 
on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.13177 
PMCID: PMC5406601
PMID: 28132399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Sci Rep. 2017 Jan 5;7:40089. doi: 10.1038/srep40089.

HBx promotes cell proliferation by disturbing the cross-talk between miR-181a and
PTEN.

Tian Y(1), Xiao X(1), Gong X(1), Peng F(1), Xu Y(1), Jiang Y(1), Gong G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha 410011, China.

Hepatitis B virus X protein (HBx) is involved in the initiation and progression
of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the mechanism is still needed to be
elucidated. In this study, we explored the relationship between HBx and microRNA 
and their roles in hepato-carcinogenesis. Firstly, by global microarray-based
microRNA profiling and qRT-PCR, we found miR-181a was strongly up-regulated in
HepG2.2.15 cells (HBV positive) and pHBV1.3-expressing HepG2 cells, and HBx
played a major role in it. Secondly, reduced PTEN protein expression in the
presence of HBx was aslo mediated by miR-181a, and in the Luciferase reporter
system, miR-181a inhibited the PTEN translation by binding the PTEN
3'-untranslated-region (UTR), and PTEN protein was decreased when epigenetic
expression of miR-181a and rescued by knocking down miR-181a. Finally, HBx
interrupted the balance between apoptosis and proliferation, which contributed to
the development of hepatocellular carcinoma, was also related to the interaction 
of miR-181a and PTEN. Taken together, we presented here a novel cross-talk
between miR-181a and PTEN which was raised by HBx, and this shined a new line in 
HBV-related hepato-carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/srep40089 
PMCID: PMC5215388
PMID: 28053323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2016 Dec 14;8(49):33412-33422. Epub 2016 Dec 2.

Gemcitabine and Antisense-microRNA Co-encapsulated PLGA-PEG Polymer Nanoparticles
for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Therapy.

Devulapally R(1), Foygel K(1), Sekar TV(1), Willmann JK(1), Paulmurugan R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Imaging Program at Stanford (MIPS), Canary Center at Stanford for
Cancer Early Detection, Bio-X Program, School of Medicine, Stanford University , 
Stanford, California 94304, United States.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is highly prevalent, and the third most common
cause of cancer-associated deaths worldwide. HCC tumors respond poorly to
chemotherapeutic anticancer agents due to inherent and acquired drug resistance, 
and low drug permeability. Targeted drug delivery systems with significant
improvement in therapeutic efficiency are needed for successful HCC therapy.
Here, we report the results of a technique optimized for the synthesis and
formulation of antisense-miRNA-21 and gemcitabine (GEM) co-encapsulated
PEGylated-PLGA nanoparticles (NPs) and their in vitro therapeutic efficacy in
human HCC (Hep3B and HepG2) cells. Water-in-oil-in-water (w/o/w) double emulsion 
method was used to coload antisense-miRNA-21 and GEM in PEGylated-PLGA-NPs. The
cellular uptake of NPs displayed time dependent increase of NPs concentration
inside the cells. Cell viability analyses in HCC (Hep3B and HepG2) cells treated 
with antisense-miRNA-21 and GEM co-encapsulated NPs demonstrated a nanoparticle
concentration dependent decrease in cell proliferation, and the maximum
therapeutic efficiency was attained in cells treated with nanoparticles
co-encapsulated with antisense-miRNA-21 and GEM. Flow cytometry analysis showed
that control NPs and antisense-miRNA-21-loaded NPs are not cytotoxic to both HCC 
cell lines, whereas treatment with free GEM and GEM-loaded NPs resulted in ∼9%
and ∼15% apoptosis, respectively. Cell cycle status analysis of both cell lines
treated with free GEM or NPs loaded with GEM or antisense-miRNA-21 displayed a
significant cell cycle arrest at the S-phase. Cellular pathway analysis indicated
that Bcl2 expression was significantly upregulated in GEM treated cells, and as
expected, PTEN expression was noticeably upregulated in cells treated with
antisense-miRNA-21. In summary, we successfully synthesized PEGylated-PLGA
nanoparticles co- encapsulated with antisense-miRNA-21 and GEM. These
co-encapsulated nanoparticles revealed increased treatment efficacy in HCC cells,
compared to cells treated with either antisense-miRNA-21- or GEM-loaded NPs at
equal concentration, indicating that down-regulation of endogenous miRNA-21
function can reduce HCC cell viability and proliferation in response to GEM
treatment.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.6b08153 
PMCID: PMC5206908
PMID: 27960411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Oncol Rep. 2016 Oct;36(4):2184-92. doi: 10.3892/or.2016.4980. Epub 2016 Jul 28.

Clinical effects of miR-101 on prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma and
carcinogenic mechanism of anti-miR-101.

Lv X(1), Li J(2), Yang B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The First People's Hospital of Shangqiu, Shangqiu,
Henan 476100, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Henan Provincial People's Hospital,
Zhengzhou, Henan 450000, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Henan Provincial People's Hospital, Zhengzhou,
Henan 450000, P.R. China.

The aim of this study was to verify whether anti-miR-101 participates in the
treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as a small-molecule antitumor agent, 
and to explore the effect on phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on
chromosome 10 (PTEN). Patients who received consecutive hepatectomies were
followed-up, and miR-101 expressions in their tumor and paracancerous tissues
were detected. Correlation between miR-101 expression and clinical pathological
factors and prognosis was studied. High‑throughput sequencing was used to detect 
the genetic and microRNA (miRNA) levels of tumor tissues. Expression of
anti-miR-101 in different HCC cell lines was determined, and those of desired
genes and proteins were detected by qRT-PCR and western blotting to obtain the
target gene. miR-101 was significantly upregulated in HCC patients compared with 
that in paracancerous tissues. High miR-101 expression, vascular invasion, tumor 
size ≥7 cm and late pathological stage were the risk factors of recurrence-free
survival rate. High miR-101 expression was the independent prognostic factor of
total and recurrence-free survival rates. CXCL12, IL6R, FOXO3 and PTEN were
screened as desired genes, and only PTEN was expressed significantly differently 
in three cell lines. miR-101 could bind 3'-UTR of WT-PTEN with reduced
fluorescent intensity, suggesting that PTEN was the target gene. SMMC-7721, HepG2
and Huh7 were eligible cell lines for miR-101 studies. miR-101 was an applicable 
molecular marker of HCC. Anti-miR-101 regulated the transcription of PTEN and may
promote cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis by regulating
downstream genes with PTEN. The regulatory effects of anti-miR-101 on PTEN
provide valuable evidence for finding novel miRNA drugs.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2016.4980 
PMID: 27498785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Transl Med. 2016 May 5;14(1):122. doi: 10.1186/s12967-016-0888-7.

MiR-19a, miR-122 and miR-223 are differentially regulated by hepatitis B virus X 
protein and involve in cell proliferation in hepatoma cells.

Yu G(1), Chen X(2), Chen S(2), Ye W(2), Hou K(2), Liang M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical
University, No.621, Gangwan Road, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, 510700, China.
guifangyu1023@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Oncology, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical
University, No.621, Gangwan Road, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, 510700, China.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis B virus (HBV) X protein (HBx) is a type of oncogenic
protein involved in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) via
interacting with host genes. Dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) has been
observed in HCC. This study aimed to investigate the role of HBx protein in the
regulation of miR-19a, miR-122 and miR-223, and examine if these miRNAs involve
in progression of malignant hepatocytes.
METHODS: Quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to measure the expression 
of miR-19a, miR-122 and miR-223 in patient samples and in HepG2 cells transfected
with HBx or 1.3 fold HBV genome and also in HepG2.2.15 cells, which stably
produces HBV. Their target mRNAs and proteins-PTEN, cyclin G1 and c-myc were
measured by qRT-PCR and western blot, respectively. The effect of miR-19a,
miR-122 and miR-223, and their respective target genes, on cell proliferation was
analyzed using 5-ethynyl-2-deoxyuridine incorporation and MTT assay.
RESULTS: MiR-19a showed an up-regulation in HBV-positive HCC patients compared to
healthy controls and HBV-negative HCC patients, while miR-122 and miR-223 showed 
a down-regulation compared to healthy controls, and miR-122 in HBV-positive HCC
patients was also down-regulated when compared to HBV-negative HCC patients.
MiR-19a was found to be up-regulated in HepG2 cells transfected with HBx or 1.3
fold HBV genome, but down-regulated in HepG2.2.15 cells. MiR-122 and miR-223 were
down-regulated in HBx or 1.3 fold HBV transfected HepG2 cells as well as in
HepG2.2.15 cell. Their target mRNAs and corresponding proteins-PTEN was
down-regulated, while cyclin G1 and c-myc were found to be up-regulated.
Modulated expression of miR-19a, miR-122 and miR-223 enhanced cell proliferation 
of HBx-transfected HepG2 cells, and rescue experiment further showed that their
target genes-PTEN, cyclin G1and c-myc involved in cell proliferation of
HBx-transfected HepG2 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The expression of miR-19a, miR-122 and miR-223 were differentially
regulated by HBx protein, the differential expression of miR-19a, miR-122 and
miR-223 plays an important role in cell proliferation of HCC. This study provides
new insight into understanding how HBx protein interacts with miRNAs and
subsequently regulates host function.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-016-0888-7 
PMCID: PMC4858919
PMID: 27150195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. FEBS J. 2016 May;283(10):1935-46. doi: 10.1111/febs.13713. Epub 2016 Apr 2.

MicroRNA 152 regulates hepatic glycogenesis by targeting PTEN.

Wang S(1), Wang L(2)(3), Dou L(2), Guo J(2), Fang W(2), Li M(1)(2), Meng X(1)(2),
Man Y(2), Shen T(2), Huang X(2), Li J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Peking University Fifth School of Clinical Medicine, Beijing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Geriatrics, Beijing Hospital and Beijing Institute of
Geriatrics, Ministry of Health, China.
(3)Department of Medicine, Shenzhen Family Planning Service Center, Guangdong,
China.

Hepatic insulin resistance, defined as a diminished ability of hepatocytes to
respond to the action of insulin, plays an important role in the development of
type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Aberrant expression of mmu-miR-152-3p
(miR-152) is related to the pathogenesis of tumors such as hepatitis B virus
related hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the role of miR-152 in hepatic insulin
resistance remains unknown. In the present study, we identified the potential
role of miR-152 in regulating hepatic glycogenesis. The expression of miR-152 and
the level of glycogen were significantly downregulated in the liver of db/db mice
and mice fed a high fat diet. In vivo and in vitro results suggest that
inhibition of miR-152 expression induced impaired glycogenesis in hepatocytes.
Interestingly, miR-152 expression, glycogen synthesis and protein kinase
B/glycogen synthase kinase (AKT/GSK) pathway activation were significantly
decreased in the liver of mice injected with 16 μg·mL(-1) interleukin 6 (IL-6) by
pumps for 7 days and in NCTC 1469 cells treated with 10 ng·mL(-1) IL-6 for 24 h. 
Moreover, hepatic overexpression of miR-152 rescued IL-6-induced impaired
glycogenesis. Finally, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) was identified as a 
direct target of miR-152 to mediate hepatic glycogen synthesis. Our findings
provide mechanistic insight into the effects of miR-152 on the regulation of the 
AKT/GSK pathway and the synthesis of glycogen in hepatocytes. Downregulated
miR-152 induced impaired hepatic glycogenesis by targeting PTEN. PTEN
participated in miR-152-mediated glycogenesis in hepatocytes via regulation of
the AKT/GSK pathway.

© 2016 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.13713 
PMID: 26996529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Curr Pharm Des. 2016;22(34):5257-5269.

Circulating microRNAs in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Potential Diagnostic and
Prognostic Biomarkers.

Mirzaei HR, Sahebkar A, Mohammadi M, Yari R, Salehi H, Jafari MH, Namdar A,
Khabazian E, Jaafari MR(1), Mirzaei H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Nanotechnology Research Center, School of
Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad 91775- 1365, Iran.
Jafarimr@mums.ac.ir.
(2)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. h.mirzei2002@gmail.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common types of malignancies
worldwide. There is little information on the mechanisms involved in the
pathogenesis of this disease. Diagnosis of HCC at early stages would be crucial
for increasing the survival of patients. Circulating miRNAs have emerged as one
of the most attractive tools for an early diagnosis of cancers. Various studies
have shown that there is an aberrant expression of miRNAs such as miR-25,
miR-375, miR-206, miR-223, miR- 92a, miR-222, miR-1, let- 7f and miR-21 in HCC.
Circulating and tissue miRNAs have also key roles in the pathogenesis of HCC by
affecting several biologically important pathways such as p53, p21, PTEN,
PI3K-AKT, c-Myc and STAT3. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on 
the role of miRNAs in diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of HCC.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612822666160303110838 
PMID: 26935703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Tumour Biol. 2016 Aug;37(8):10609-19. doi: 10.1007/s13277-016-4919-z. Epub 2016
Feb 10.

MicroRNA-130b promotes proliferation and EMT-induced metastasis via
PTEN/p-AKT/HIF-1α signaling.

Chang RM(1), Xu JF(1), Fang F(1), Yang H(1), Yang LY(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Cancer Laboratory, Department of Surgery, Xiangya Hospital, Central
South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Liver Cancer Laboratory, Department of Surgery, Xiangya Hospital, Central
South University, Changsha, Hunan, China. lianyueyang@hotmail.com.
(3)Liver Cancer Laboratory, Department of Surgery, Xiangya Hospital, Xiangya Road
87, Changsha, 410008, Hunan, China. lianyueyang@hotmail.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major cause of cancer-related deaths owing to
its high rate of postoperative recurrence and metastasis. New research is
continuously identifying novel metastasis-associated oncogenes and tumor
suppressor genes. miRNAs are noncoding RNAs that regulate protein synthesis
post-translationally. miR-130b is one of several miRNAs involved in tumor
metastasis. However, the role of miR-130b in HCC remains controversial. Here, we 
demonstrate that miR-130b is highly expressed in HCC and that it correlates with 
tumor number, vascular invasion, and TNM stage-important predictors of
postoperative recurrence and metastases. Moreover, high levels of miR-130b
predicted poor overall and disease-free survival of HCC patients, and in vitro
and in vivo research revealed that knockdown or overexpression of miR-130b
inhibited and promoted proliferation and metastasis of HCC cells, respectively.
We identified PTEN as a direct functional target of miR-130b using miRNA
databases and a dual luciferase report assay. Next, using a gain and loss assay
and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) relative assays, we show that
miR-130b may promote proliferation and EMT-induced metastasis via
PTEN/p-AKT/HIF-1α signaling. Collectively, our data suggests that miR-130b may
have prognostic value in HCC. Additionally, the miR-130b/PTEN/p-AKT/HIF-1α axis
identified in this study provides novel insight into the mechanisms of HCC
metastasis, which may facilitate the development of new therapeutics against HCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-016-4919-z 
PMID: 26861561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016 Jan 29;470(1):187-191. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.01.025. Epub 2016 Jan 7.

miR-367 promotes proliferation and invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma cells by 
negatively regulating PTEN.

Meng X(1), Lu P(2), Fan Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Oncology Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University,
Zhengzhou, China.
(2)Gastrointestinal Surgery Department, People's Hospital of Zhengzhou,
Zhengzhou, China.

Retraction in
    Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Aug 6;515(4):727.

MicroRNAs play important roles in the carcinogenesis of many types of cancers by 
inhibiting gene expression at posttranscriptional level. However, the roles of
microRNAs in hepatocellular carcinoma, are still unclear. Here, we identified
that miR-367 promotes hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell proliferation by
negatively regulates its target gene PTEN. The expression of miR-367 and PTEN are
significantly inverse correlated in 35 HCC patients. In HCC cell line, CCK-8
proliferation assay indicated that the cell proliferation was promoted by
miR-367, while miR-367 inhibitor significantly inhibited the cell proliferation. 
Transwell assay showed that miR-367 mimics significantly promoted the migration
and invasion of HCC cells, whereas miR-367 inhibitors significantly reduced cell 
migration and invasion. Luciferase assays confirmed that miR-367 directly bound
to the 3'untranslated region of PTEN, and western blotting showed that miR-367
suppressed the expression of PTEN at the protein levels. This study indicated
that miR-367 negatively regulates PTEN and promotes proliferation and invasion of
HCC cells. Thus, miR-367 may represent a potential therapeutic target for HCC
intervention.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.01.025 
PMID: 26772880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Int J Oncol. 2016 Mar;48(3):965-74. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2015.3309. Epub 2015 Dec 28.

MicroRNA-519a promotes tumor growth by targeting PTEN/PI3K/AKT signaling in
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Tu K(1), Liu Z(1), Yao B(1), Han S(1), Yang W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, P.R. China.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been found to play fundamental roles in the pathogenesis 
of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Previous miRNA array data showed that miR-519a
was upregulated in HCC tissues compared to adjacent non-tumor tissues. However,
the functional role of miR-519a in HCC remains unexplored. In this study, we
demonstrated that the expression of miR-519a was elevated in both HCC tissues and
cell lines. Clinical association analysis revealed that high expression of
miR-519a was correlated with adverse clinicopathological characteristics
including large tumor size, high Edmondson-Steiner grading, advanced
tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) tumor stage and venous infiltration. Furthermore,
high expression of miR-519a conferred a reduced 5-year overall survival and
disease-free survival of HCC patients. Moreover, we disclosed that miR-519a
overexpression promoted, but miR-519a silencing reduced, HCC cell proliferation
and cell cycle progression in vitro. Notably, we identified phosphatase and
tensin homolog (PTEN) as a direct downstream target and functional mediator of
miR-519a in HCC cells. Mechanistically, phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase
(PI3K)/AKT pathway, downstream of PTEN, is essential for the functional roles of 
miR-519a in HCC cells. In conclusion, our results indicate that miR-519a promotes
tumor growth of HCC by targeting PTEN-mediated PI3K/AKT pathway, and potentially 
serves as a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2015.3309 
PMCID: PMC4750540
PMID: 26708293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Tumour Biol. 2016 May;37(5):5885-95. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-4456-1. Epub 2015
Nov 21.

Overexpression of microRNA-30a-5p inhibits liver cancer cell proliferation and
induces apoptosis by targeting MTDH/PTEN/AKT pathway.

Li WF(1), Dai H(1)(2), Ou Q(3), Zuo GQ(2), Liu CA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatibiliary Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Chongqing Traditional Chinese Medicine
Hospital, Chongqing, 400016, China.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, Hubei University of Medicine, Shiyan City,
Hubei Province, 442000, China.
(4)Department of Hepatibiliary Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, China. chang_an_liu@yahoo.com.

Increasing results suggest microRNAs (miRNAs) could function important roles in
malignant tumor progression. miR-30a-5p is downregulated in variety of cancers
and acts as a cancer suppressing gene. The functions and molecular mechanisms of 
miRNA-30a-5p in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain unclear. In the present
study, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to detect miR-30a-5p
expression in 16 pairs of HCC and their adjacent non-cancerous tissues and HCC
cell lines. By overexpression of miRNA-30a-5p, CCK-8 and colon formation assay
were used to evaluate cell growth and flow cytometry to evaluate cell apoptosis. 
Western blot was used to test protein expression. And potential mechanisms were
analyzed with luciferase activity assay. In vivo HepG2 tumor growth was observed 
with nude mice. Our results showed that miR-30a-5p expression in HCC tissues was 
significantly lower compared to adjacent non-cancerous liver tissues, and lower
miR-30a-5p expression was also observed in HCC cell lines compared to normal
liver cell. Luciferase assay showed that metadherin (MTDH) mRNA was a direct
target of miR-30a-5p. A significant reverse correlation between miR-30a-5p and
MTDH in liver cancer tissues was observed. miR-30a-5p overexpression in HCC cells
significantly inhibited cell proliferation, colon formation, and induced
apoptosis while MTDH overexpression reversed growth inhibition and apoptosis
induction of miRNA-30a-5p in HCC cells. miRNA-30a-5p upregulated phosphatase and 
tensin homolog (PTEN) protein expression and thus inhibited AKT activating by
targeting MTDH. miRNA-30a-5p also significantly inhibited HepG2 tumor growth in
vivo. Our results suggest that underexpression of miR-30a-5p might function as a 
tumor suppressing miRNA by directly targeting MTDH in HCC and is therefore a
potential candidate biomarker for HCC targeting therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-4456-1 
PMID: 26589417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Oncol Rep. 2016 Jan;35(1):366-74. doi: 10.3892/or.2015.4334. Epub 2015 Oct 16.

MicroRNA-616 promotes the migration, invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal
transition of HCC by targeting PTEN.

Zhang D(1), Zhou P(2), Wang W(2), Wang X(2), Li J(1), Sun X(2), Zhang L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Medical
College of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710004, P.R. China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Medical
College of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710004, P.R. China.

MicroRNAs, which can post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression by binding
to the 3'-untranslated regions of the mRNAs, have been found to be the critical
regulators of the development and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). 
The present study demonstrated for the first time that microRNA-616 (miR-616) was
markedly upregulated in HCC tissues, and was associated with the recurrence and
metastasis of HCC. Elevated level of miR-616 was correlated with adverse
clinicopathological features and poor prognosis of HCC patients. Gain- and
loss-of-function studies revealed that miR-616 could potentiate the migration,
invasion and the epithelial-mesenchymal transtion (EMT) phenotype of HCC cells.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), the predicted target of miR-616 by
bioinformatics analysis, was confirmed as a direct downstream target of miR-616
through western blotting, luciferase reporter and immunohistochemical assays.
Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-616 exerted the promoting effects on EMT
and metastatic ability of HCC cells through suppressing PTEN expression. Based on
these results, we conclude that miR-616 is a promising prognostic biomarker of
HCC and targeting miR-616 may be a potential option to prevent the progression of
HCC.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2015.4334 
PMID: 26499912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Tumour Biol. 2016 Feb;37(2):2691-702. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-4111-x. Epub 2015
Sep 24.

Long noncoding RNA GAS5 suppresses the migration and invasion of hepatocellular
carcinoma cells via miR-21.

Hu L(1), Ye H(2), Huang G(3), Luo F(4)(5), Liu Y(1), Liu Y(4)(5), Yang X(1), Shen
J(1), Liu Q(6)(7), Zhang J(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, 210011, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 225009, Jiangsu, People's
Republic of China.
(3)Institute for Digestive Endoscopy and Medical Center for Digestive Disease,
The Second Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 210011,
Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(4)Institute of Toxicology, School of Public Health, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, 211166, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(5)The Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology, Ministry of Education, School of
Public Health, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 211166, Jiangsu, People's
Republic of China.
(6)Institute of Toxicology, School of Public Health, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, 211166, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China. drqzliu@hotmail.com.
(7)The Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology, Ministry of Education, School of
Public Health, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 211166, Jiangsu, People's
Republic of China. drqzliu@hotmail.com.
(8)Department of General Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, 210011, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
drjpzhang@hotmail.com.

Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are aberrantly expressed in various cancers.
Although lncRNA GAS5 (growth arrest-specific transcript 5) has been characterized
as a tumor suppressor in some kinds of cancer, its role and function in
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain unknown. The present report demonstrates
that there are lower levels of GAS5, PDCD4, and PTEN and higher levels of
microRNA-21 (miR-21) in HCC tissues than in adjacent normal tissues. Moreover,
the levels of GAS5 and miR-21 were correlated with the clinicopathological
characteristics of HCC. HCC patients with higher levels of GAS5 or with the lower
levels of miR-21 have longer survival times. There are lower levels of GAS5 and
higher levels of miR-21 in HCC cell lines (Be7402, SMMC-7721, and HCCLM3) than in
normal liver L-02 cells, and the levels correlate with the aggression of the HCC 
cell lines. Knockdown of GAS5 upregulates miR-21 levels in Bel-7402 cells (weakly
aggressive); in contrast, there are opposite changes in HCCLM3 cells (highly
aggressive). Moreover, GAS5 that upregulated or downregulated the expression of
PDCD4 and PTEN was reversed by inhibiting or overexpressing miR-21 level in
Bel-7402 and HCCLM3 cells. Then, overexpression of GAS5 suppresses the migration 
and invasion of HCC cells and high expression of miR-21 largely eliminates
GAS5-mediated suppression of HCC cell migration and invasion. Thus, GAS5 acts as 
a tumor suppressor in HCCs through negative regulation of miR-21 and its targets 
and proteins about migration and invasion in cancer cells, which may be a target 
for treating HCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-4111-x 
PMID: 26404135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Infect Agent Cancer. 2015 Jul 27;10:24. doi: 10.1186/s13027-015-0018-9.
eCollection 2015.

HCV infection-associated hepatocellular carcinoma in humanized mice.

Wang Z(#)(1), Wu N(#)(1), Tesfaye A(2), Feinstone S(1)(2), Kumar A(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, The George Washington
University, Washington, DC 20037 USA.
(2)Division of Viral Products, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, FDA,
Bethesda, MD 20892 USA.
(3)Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, The George Washington University, Ross
Hall room 232, 2300 Eye Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20037 USA.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major risk factor for
chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Our aim is to
explore molecular changes that underlie HCV infection-associated HCC in a
humanized mouse model, in order to identify markers of HCC progression.
METHODS: Liver proteins from human hepatocyte-engrafted and HCV-infected
MUP-uPA/SCID/Bg mice were compared with either uninfected controls or
HCV-infected but HCC-negative mice by Western blotting. MicroRNA markers of HCC
positive or uninfected mouse liver were analyzed by RT-PCR.
RESULTS: We describe the depletion of tumor suppressor proteins and induction of 
oncoproteins and oncogenic microRNAs (oncomiRs) in HCV-infection associated HCC. 
Similar depletion of PTEN protein in both HCC-positive and HCV-infected but
HCC-negative liver suggests that PTEN depletion is an early, precancerous marker 
of HCC. By contrast, induction of oncoprotein cMyc, oncomiRs (miR21, miR221 and
miR141) and inflammatory response proteins correspond to HCC progression.
CONCLUSIONS: While the loss of PTEN is important for the initiation of HCV
infection-associated HCC, PTEN depletion by itself is insufficient for tumor
progression. Liver tumor progression requires induction of oncoproteins and
oncomiRs. Overall, human hepatocyte-engrafted (MUP-uPA/SCID/Bg) mice provide a
suitable small animal model for studying the effects of oncogenic changes that
promote HCV infection associated HCC.

DOI: 10.1186/s13027-015-0018-9 
PMCID: PMC4515941
PMID: 26217396 


61. Oncol Rep. 2015 Aug;34(2):1003-10. doi: 10.3892/or.2015.4030. Epub 2015 Jun 4.

miR-494 promotes cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and increased
sorafenib resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma by targeting PTEN.

Liu K(1), Liu S(1), Zhang W(1), Jia B(1), Tan L(1), Jin Z(1), Liu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, The First Hospital, Jilin
University, Changchun, Jilin, P.R. China.

MicroRNA-494 (miR-494) acts as an oncomiR and is involved in tumor development,
progression and metastasis, and confers resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs by
targeting a number of molecules in several human cancers. However, the function
and underlying molecular mechanism of miR-494 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
has not been totally elucidated. In the present study, we determined the role
played by miR-494 in HCC tissues and HCC cell lines using quantitative RT-PCR
(RT-qPCR). The results showed that, miR-494 was significantly upregulated in HCC 
tissues and HCC cell lines. Additionally, a high miR-494 expression positively
correlated with tumor differentiation (P<0.01), TNM stage (P<0.01) and lymph node
metastasis (P<0.01). Luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-494 binds to
the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) 
mRNA and represses its translation. Functional analyses indicated that the
upregulation of miR-494 promoted cell viability, migration and invasion,
decreased cell apoptosis and cell cycle arrest at G1 stage, and conferred
sorafenib resistance to HCC cell lines. Underexpression of PTEN by siRNA
significantly attenuated the inhibitory effects of anti-miR-494 on the
proliferation, migration and invasion of liver cancer cells. Mechanistic
investigations revealed that miR-494 suppressed the expression of PTEN but
increased the expression of PI3K and p-Akt, which contribute to the promotion of 
proliferation, migration and invasion, and increased sorafenib resistance to HCC 
cell lines. These findings suggested that miR-494 is a potential candidate for
HCC therapeutics.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2015.4030 
PMID: 26045065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Feb 1;8(2):1466-78. eCollection 2015.

Significance of serum microRNA-21 in diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC):
clinical analyses of patients and an HCC rat model.

Wang X(1), Zhang J(2), Zhou L(3), Lu P(1), Zheng ZG(1), Sun W(1), Wang JL(1),
Yang XS(1), Li XL(1), Xia N(1), Zhang N(1), Dou KF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Xijing Hospital, The Fourth Military
Medical University Xi'an 710032, Shannxi, China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, 44 Hospital of PLA Guiyang, Guizhou 550009, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, 155 Central Hospital of PLA Kaifeng, He'nan
471000, China.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are associated with human carcinogenesis and tumor
development. Moreover, serum miRNAs can reflect the level of tissue miRNAs and be
potential tumor markers. Serum microRNA-21 (miR-21) is overexpressed in many
human cancers including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, how serum miR-21
changes during the HCC formation and whether miR-21 plays a regulatory role in
this whole process are unknown. The current study evaluated the prognostic and
diagnostic potential of serum miR-21 in HCC patients. Next, we established a HCC 
rat model and collected the blood and liver tissues at regular time points. AFP
from the serum, RNA from the serum and liver tissues were collected and
quantified separately. The results revealed that tissue and serum miR-21 was
upregulated significantly in the groups of cirrhosis, early and advanced HCC
compared with normal and fibrosis groups. The AFP levels were increased in early 
and advanced HCC compared with other groups. Then, the changes of miR-21
downstream proteins (i.e., programmed cell death 4 [PDCD4] and phosphatase and
tensin homolog [PTEN]) in the liver tissues were measured. PDCD4 and PTEN
expression was decreased gradually after tumor induction and negatively
correlated with miR-21 expression. All these results suggested that serum miR-21 
was associated with the prognosis of HCC; the changes in serum miR-21 were
earlier and more accurately reflected the pathogenesis of HCC than AFP;
therefore, it could be used as an early diagnostic marker for HCC. Our in vivo
experiments further confirmed that miR-21 plays an important role in promoting
the occurrence and development of HCC by regulating PDCD4 and PTEN.


PMCID: PMC4396214
PMID: 25973032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2015;15(3):176-87.

MiRNA153 Reduces Effects of Chemotherapeutic Agents or Small Molecular Kinase
Inhibitor in HCC Cells.

Chen Y, Feng F, Gao X, Wang C, Sun H, Zhang C, Zeng Z, Lu Y, An L, Qu J, Wang F, 
Yang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Therapeutic Research for Liver Cancer, Beijing the 302 Hospital, 100
Xi Si Huan Middle Road, Beijing 100039, China. yongpingyang@hotmail.com.

MicroRNA-153 (miR-153) is considered to be a tumor regulator. Silencing of
miR-153 expression induced apoptosis in breast cancer cells. Data on mechanism
suggest that up-regulation of miR- 153 level promotes cell proliferation via the 
down regulation of the expression of PTEN or FOXO1, which attenuates the
proliferation of cancerous cells. This study aims to identify the effect of
miR-153 on the activity of chemotherapeutic and targeted agents in HCC cells and 
to investigate the mechanisms involved. MTT, soft agar, trans-well and flow
cytometry assays were performed to examine whether miR-153 down-regulated the
activity of the chemotherapeutic and targeted drugs, Sorafenib, Etoposide and
Paclitaxel in HCC cells. The rate of proliferation inhibition, relative survival 
rates and IC50 values of each drug were calculated. Western blot and luciferase
assays were performed to assess whether miR-153 modulates the expression of
important genes related to cell proliferation, apoptosis or survival. Results
showed that miR-153 attenuated the effect of Etoposide, Paclitaxel and Sorafenib 
on HepG2 cells; the IC50 value increased from 0.25±0.01μmol/L to 1.02±0.14μmol/L,
0.05±0.01μmol/L to 0.14±0.02μmol/L and from 1.09±0.15μmol/L to 5.18±0.99μmol/L,
respectively. In addition, miR-153 also reduced the effect of these drugs on
MHCC- 97H, MHCC-97 L and L-02 cells; and it also reduced the effects of
Sorafenib, Etoposide and Paclitaxel on anchor-independent growth of HepG2 cells. 
Over-expression of miR-153 down-regulated the activity of Etoposide and
Paclitaxel on cell cycle arrest of HepG2 cells and the effect of Sorafenib on the
invasion and migration of HepG2 cells. Furthermore, overexpression of miR-153
also enhanced the growth of HepG2, MHCC-97H, MHCC-97 L and L-02 cells. Mechanisms
data showed that overexpression of miR-153 down regulated the activity of
luciferase reporters, p15-Luc and p21-Luc; and enhanced the protein level of
pro-survival or anti-apoptosis proteins Survivin and BCL-2. These results show
that overexpression of miR-153 protects HepG2 cells against the effects of these 
drugs via multiple mechanisms, and miR-153 may be a novel target for HCC in
future diagnostic and therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.2174/1568009615666150225122635 
PMID: 25714700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Oncotarget. 2015 Mar 20;6(8):6014-28.

miR-1236 down-regulates alpha-fetoprotein, thus causing PTEN accumulation, which 
inhibits the PI3K/Akt pathway and malignant phenotype in hepatoma cells.

Gao R(1), Cai C(1), Gan J(2), Yang X(1), Shuang Z(3), Liu M(1), Li S(3), Tang
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Life Science Research Center and Basic Medical School, Tianjin Medical
University, Tianjin, China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Secondary Hospital of Tianjin Medical University,
Tianjin, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in Southern China, Department of
Hepatobiliary Oncology, Cancer Center, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.

Alpha fetoprotein (AFP) is a clinical biomarker of hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC). Here, we found that miR-1236 is down-regulated, whereas AFP is highly
expressed in HCC tissues and cells. We demonstrated that miR-1236 directly
targets the 3'UTR of AFP and down-regulates its expression. Also, miR-1236
inhibited and AFP stimulated proliferation, migration, invasion and vasculogenic 
mimicry (VM) of HCC. In agreement, AFP over-expression counteracted the
inhibitory effect of miR-1236. We demonstrated that AFP promoted the
ubiquitination of PTEN, thus decreasing PTEN levels, while miR-1236 inhibited the
PI3K/Akt pathway.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.3338 
PMCID: PMC4467418
PMID: 25714026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Tumour Biol. 2015 Jun;36(6):4747-55. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-3124-9. Epub 2015
Feb 3.

MiR-32 induces cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in hepatocellular
carcinoma by targeting PTEN.

Yan SY(1), Chen MM, Li GM, Wang YQ, Fan JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Repubic of China.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression by inhibiting translation of target
messenger RNAs (mRNAs) through pairing with miRNA recognition elements (MREs),
usually in 3'-UTRs. miRNAs are involved in the pathogenesis of several types of
cancers. Specifically, microRNA-32 (miR-32) is overexpressed in colorectal
carcinoma, wherein accumulating evidence indicates that it functions as an
oncogene. However, the function of miR-32 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has
not been totally elucidated. In the present study, we found the expression of
miR-32 was up-regulated in HCC tissue and cell lines, inversely the expression of
phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) decreased. Besides, miRNA-32 down-regulates
PTEN through binding to 3'-UTR of PTEN mRNA from luciferase reporter assay, and
the expression level of miR-32 could affect the proliferation, migration, and
invasion of liver cancer cell lines via PTEN/Akt signaling pathway.
Down-expression of PTEN could significantly attenuate the inhibitory effects of
knockdown miR-32 on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of liver cancer
cells, suggesting that miR-32 could be a potential target for HCC treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-3124-9 
PMID: 25647261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Oncotarget. 2015 Feb 20;6(5):3211-24.

MicroRNA-93 activates c-Met/PI3K/Akt pathway activity in hepatocellular carcinoma
by directly inhibiting PTEN and CDKN1A.

Ohta K(1), Hoshino H(1), Wang J(1), Ono S(1), Iida Y(1), Hata K(1), Huang SK(1), 
Colquhoun S(2), Hoon DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Oncology, John Wayne Cancer Institute at Providence
Saint John's Health Center, Santa Monica, CA, USA.
(2)Liver Disease and Transplant Center, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Beverly
Hills, CA, USA.

To assess the role of microRNAs (miR) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), we
performed comprehensive microRNA expression profiling using HCC cell lines and
identified miR-93 as a novel target associated with HCC. We further verified
miR-93 expression levels in advanced HCC tumors (n=47) by a direct PCR assay and 
found that elevated miR-93 expression level is significantly correlated with poor
prognosis. Elevated miR-93 expression significantly stimulated in vitro cell
proliferation, migration and invasion, and additionally inhibited apoptosis. We
confirmed that miR-93 directly bound with the 3' untranslated regions of the
tumor-suppressor genes PTEN and CDKN1A, respectively,and inhibited their
expression. As a result of this inhibition, the c-Met/PI3K/Akt pathway activity
was enhanced. IHC analysis of HCC tumors showed significant correlation between
c-Met protein expression levels and miR-93 expression levels. Knockdown of c-Met 
inhibited the activation of the c-Met/PI3K/Akt pathway regardless of hepatocyte
growth factor (HGF) treatment, and furthermore reduced the expression of miR-93
in these HCC cells. miR-93 also rendered cells to be more sensitive to sorafenib 
and tivantinib treatment. We concluded that miR-93 stimulated cell proliferation,
migration, and invasion through the oncogenic c-Met/PI3K/Akt pathway and also
inhibited apoptosis by directly inhibiting PTEN and CDKN1A expression in human
HCC.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.3085 
PMCID: PMC4413648
PMID: 25633810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Biomaterials. 2015 Mar;44:71-81. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2014.12.023. Epub
2015 Jan 12.

Suppression of hepatocellular carcinoma by baculovirus-mediated expression of
long non-coding RNA PTENP1 and MicroRNA regulation.

Chen CL(1), Tseng YW(1), Wu JC(2), Chen GY(1), Lin KC(1), Hwang SM(3), Hu YC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu,
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Medical Research and Education, Taipei Veterans General
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Institute of Clinical Medicine, National Yang-Ming
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Bioresource Collection and Research Center, Food Industry Research and
Development Institute, Hsinchu, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu,
Taiwan. Electronic address: ychu@mx.nthu.edu.tw.

Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play regulatory roles in cancers. LncRNA PTENP1 is
a pseudogene of the tumor suppressor gene PTEN but its roles in hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC) have yet to be explored. Here we confirmed that PTENP1 and PTEN
were downregulated in several HCC cells, thus we constructed Sleeping Beauty
(SB)-based hybrid baculovirus (BV) vectors for sustained PTENP1 lncRNA
expression. Co-transduction of HCC cells with the SB-BV vector expressing PTENP1 
elevated the levels of PTENP1 and PTEN, which suppressed the oncogenic PI3K/AKT
pathway, inhibited cell proliferation, migration/invasion as well as induced
autophagy and apoptosis. The overexpressed PTENP1 decoyed oncomirs miR-17,
miR-19b and miR-20a, which would otherwise target PTEN, PHLPP (a negative AKT
regulator) and such autophagy genes as ULK1, ATG7 and p62, indicating that PTENP1
modulated the HCC cell behavior and gene networks by miRNA regulation. Injection 
of the PTENP1-expressing SB-BV vector into mice bearing HCC tumors effectively
mitigated the tumor growth, suppressed intratumoral cell proliferation, elicited 
apoptosis, autophagy and inhibited angiogenesis. These data collectively unveiled
the molecular mechanisms of how PTENP1 repressed the tumorigenic properties of
HCC cells and demonstrated the potential of the SB-BV hybrid vector for PTENP1
lncRNA modulation and HCC therapy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2014.12.023 
PMID: 25617127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Jan;1853(1):244-53. doi: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2014.10.017.
Epub 2014 Oct 25.

Indole-3-carbinol inhibits tumorigenicity of hepatocellular carcinoma cells via
suppression of microRNA-21 and upregulation of phosphatase and tensin homolog.

Wang X(1), He H(1), Lu Y(2), Ren W(3), Teng KY(3), Chiang CL(3), Yang Z(1), Yu
B(1), Hsu S(2), Jacob ST(4), Ghoshal K(4), Lee LJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)NSF Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC), The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(3)Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, USA; Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Ohio State University,
Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)NSF Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC), The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH, USA; Department of Chemical and Biomolecular
Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Electronic address:
lee.31@osu.edu.

A major obstacle to successful treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is its
high resistance to cytotoxic chemotherapy due to overexpression of multidrug
resistance genes. Activation of the AKT pathway is known to be involved in
chemoresistance in HCC; however, the underlying mechanisms modulating the AKT
pathway by chemopreventive agents remain unclear. In the present study, we found 
that indole-3-carbinol (I3C) treatment for tumor cells repressed the AKT pathway 
by increasing the expression of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) in HCC
xenograft tumor and HCC cell lines. qRT-PCR data showed that the expression of
miR-21 and miR-221&222 was significantly reduced by I3C in HCC cells in vitro and
in vivo. Reactivation of the AKT pathway via restoration of miR-21 was reversed
by I3C. Ectopic expression of miR-21 mediated-accelerated wound healing was
abrogated by I3C. Moreover, reducing the expression of miR-21 by anti-miR
decreased the resistance of HCC cells to I3C. These results provide experimental 
evidences that I3C could function as a miR-21 regulator, leading to repression of
the PTEN/AKT pathway and opening a new avenue for eradication of drug-resistant
cells, thus potentially helping to improve the therapeutic outcome in patients
diagnosed with HCC.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2014.10.017 
PMCID: PMC4293016
PMID: 25447674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Oncotarget. 2014 Dec 30;5(24):12916-35.

Aurora-A promotes chemoresistance in hepatocelluar carcinoma by targeting
NF-kappaB/microRNA-21/PTEN signaling pathway.

Zhang K(1), Chen J(1), Chen D(1), Huang J(1), Feng B(1), Han S(1), Chen Y(1),
Song H(1), De W(2), Zhu Z(3), Wang R(1), Chen L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Jinling Hospital, School of Medicine, Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, First Hospital Affiliated to the Chinese 
PLA General Hospital, Fucheng, Haidian District, Beijing, China.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is highly resistant to chemotherapy. Previously,
we have shown that Aurora-A mRNA is upregulated in HCC cells or tissues and
silencing of Aurora-A using small interfering RNA (siRNA) decreases growth and
enhances apoptosis in HCC cells. However, the clinical significance of Aurora-A
protein expression in HCC and association between Aurora-A expression and HCC
chemoresistance is unclear. Here, we showed that Aurora-A protein is upregulated 
in HCC tissues and significantly correlated with recurrence-free and overall
survival of patients and multivariate analysis indicated that immunostaining of
Aurora-A will be an independent prognostic factor for patients. Silencing of
Aurora-A significantly increased the chemosensitivity of HCC cells both in vitro 
and in vivo, while overexpression of Aurora-A induced the opposite effects.
Furthermore, overexpression of Aurora-A reduces chemotherapy-induced apoptosis by
promoting microRNA-21 expression, which negatively regulates PTEN and then
inhibits caspase-3-mediated apoptosis induction. Mechanically, we demonstrated
that Aurora-A promotes expression of nuclear Ikappaβ-alpha (Iκβα) protein and
enhances NF-kappa B (NF-κB) activity, thus promotes the transcription of miR-21. 
This study first reported the involvement of Aurora-A/NF-κB/miR-21/PTEN/Akt
signaling axis in chemoresistance of HCC cells, suggesting that targeting this
signaling pathway would be helpful as a therapeutic strategy for the reversal of 
chemoresistance in HCC.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.2682 
PMCID: PMC4350360
PMID: 25428915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Tumour Biol. 2015 Mar;36(3):1511-8. doi: 10.1007/s13277-014-2679-1. Epub 2014 Nov
6.

Overexpression of miR-218 inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma cell growth through
RET.

Sui C(1), Xu F, Shen W, Geng L, Xie F, Dai B, Lu J, Zhang M, Yang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Special Medical Care and Liver Transplantation, Eastern
Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai,
200438, China.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer in the world with 
poor prognosis. Here, we investigated the role of microRNA 218 (miR-218) in
regulating human HCC development. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) was used to compare the
expression levels of miR-218 between eight HCC and a normal liver cell lines, as 
well as nine primary HCC tissues and adjacent non-carcinoma tissues. HCC cell
lines MHCC97L and Huh7 were transfected with lentiviral vector of miR-218 mimics.
The effect of miR-218 overexpression on cancer cell growth, both in vitro and in 
vivo, as well as cancer cell invasion was examined. A bioinformatic method was
used to predict the binding of miR-218 to RET proto-oncogene (RET). Small
interfering RNA (SiRNA)-mediated genetic knock-down of RET was performed in
MHCC97L and Huh7 cells, and its modulatory effect on miR-218-mediated HCC
development was examined. miR-218 was found to be downregulated in HCC cell lines
and primary HCC tissues. Overexpression of miR-218 in MHCC97L or Huh7 cells
resulted in significant decrease in cell proliferation and invasion capability.
Overexpression of miR-218 also reduced the tumor growth of xenografted Huh7 cells
in vivo. The expression of endogenous RET was found to be upregulated by miR-218,
and siRNA-induced RET downregulation resulted in phosphatase and tensin homolog
deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) upregulation and reversal of the inhibitory
effect of miR-218 upregulation on HCC proliferation. Our results indicate that
miR-218 modulates HCC development, and this effect may be through RET and PTEN.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-014-2679-1 
PMID: 25374061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. BMC Cancer. 2014 Sep 26;14:721. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-721.

Tumor suppressor micro RNA miR-145 and onco micro RNAs miR-21 and miR-222
expressions are differentially modulated by hepatitis B virus X protein in
malignant hepatocytes.

Bandopadhyay M, Banerjee A, Sarkar N, Panigrahi R, Datta S, Pal A, Singh SP,
Biswas A, Chakrabarti S, Chakravarty R(1).

Author information: 
(1)ICMR Virus Unit, Kolkata, GB-4, 1st floor, ID & BG Hospital Campus, 57, Dr, S 
C Banerjee Road, Beliaghata, Kolkata West Bengal, 700010, India.
runugc@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) X protein (HBx) is known to be involved in
the initiation and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) through
modulation of host gene response. Alterations in miRNA expressions are frequently
noted in HCC. This study is aimed to examine the role of HBx protein in the
modulation of oncogenic miRNA-21, miRNA-222 and tumor suppressor miRNA-145 in
malignant hepatocytes.
METHODS: Expressions of miRNA-21, miRNA-222 and miRNA-145 were measured in HepG2 
cells transfected with HBx-plasmid (genotype D) and with full length HBV genome
(genotype D) and also in stably HBV producing HepG2.2.15 cells using real time
PCR. Their target mRNAs and proteins - PTEN, p27 and MAP3K - were analyzed by
real time PCR and western blot respectively. miRNA expressions were measured
after HBx/D mRNA specific siRNA treatment. The expressions of these miRNAs were
analyzed in liver cirrhosis and HCC patients also.
RESULTS: The study revealed a down-regulation of miRNA-21 and miRNA-222
expressions in HBx transfected HepG2 cells, pUC-HBV 1.3 plasmid transfected HepG2
cells as well as in HepG2.2.15 cells. Down regulation of miRNA-21 and miRNA-222
expression was observed in patient serum samples. Down regulation of miRNA-145
expression was observed in HepG2 cells transiently transfected with HBx and
pUC-HBV1.3 plasmid as well as in patient samples but the expression of miRNA-145 
was increased in HepG2.2.15 cells. Target mRNA and protein expressions were
modulated in HepG2 cells and in HepG2.2.15 cell line consistent with the
modulation of miRNA expressions.
CONCLUSION: Thus, HBx protein differentially modulated the expression of miRNAs. 
The study throws light into possible way by which HBx protein acts through
microRNA and thereby regulates host functioning. It might suggest new therapeutic
strategies against hepatic cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-721 
PMCID: PMC4190340
PMID: 25260533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Cancer Cell Int. 2014 Sep 20;14(1):95. doi: 10.1186/s12935-014-0095-7.
eCollection 2014.

MicroRNA-492 expression promotes the progression of hepatic cancer by targeting
PTEN.

Jiang J(1), Zhang Y(2), Yu C(1), Li Z(1), Pan Y(1), Sun C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biliary-Hepatic Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Guiyang Medical 
College, 28 Guiyi Road, Guiyang, Guizhou 550001 China.
(2)Department of Biliary-Hepatic Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Guiyang Medical 
College, 28 Guiyi Road, Guiyang, Guizhou 550001 China ; Zhongnan Hospital of
Wuhan University, Institute of Hepatobiliary Diseases of Wuhan University, Wuhan,
Hubei 430071 China.

BACKGROUND: Aberrant microRNA (miRNA) expression plays an essential role in the
pathogenesis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC). However, specific involvement of 
miRNAs in HCC remains incompletely understood. The aim of this study was to
explore the relevant microRNAs involved in the development of HCC.
METHODS: MicroRNA microarray was used to screen for the differentially expressed 
miRNAs in cancerous tissue and adjacent non-cancerous control tissue from
patients with HCC (n = 3). Quantitative PCR was subsequently used to verify the
results of microarray. Based on the findings, we investigated the role of miR-492
in the pathogenesis of HCC in vitro and in vivo using three tumor cells lines.
Furthermore, we analyzed the clinical correlation of miR-492 expression with
patient survival (n = 28).
RESULTS: We showed that microRNA-492 (miR-492) was elevated in HCC samples from
patients with hepatic cancer. Knockdown of miR-492 attenuated the proliferation
of cancer cell lines in vitro and inhibited primary tumor growth in vivo in SCID 
mice. We identified PTEN as a functional target for miR-492. Overexpression of
miR-492 resulted in decreased PTEN expression and was associated with increased
AKT activation in cancer cell lines. Moreover, miR-492-mediated increase of the
proliferation of cancer cells was able to be suppressed by a PI3K inhibitor and
an AKT inhibitor. The HCC patients with high miR-492/low PTEN had poorer
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: miR-492 is implicated in the regulation of HCC progression through
PTEN and AKT pathway. The data suggest that miR-492 is a biomarker of HCC and a
potential therapeutic target for hepatocellular carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1186/s12935-014-0095-7 
PMCID: PMC4172814
PMID: 25253996 


73. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 May 28;20(20):5962-72. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i20.5962.

miR-106b-25/miR-17-92 clusters: polycistrons with oncogenic roles in
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Tan W(1), Li Y(1), Lim SG(1), Tan TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Weiqi Tan, Theresa MC Tan, Department of Biochemistry, Yong Loo Lin School of 
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore S117597, Singapore.

MicroRNAs are small endogenously expressed RNA molecules which are involved in
the process of silencing gene expression through translational regulation. The
polycistronic miR-17-92 cluster is the first microRNA cluster shown to play a
role in tumorigenesis. It has two other paralogs in the human genome, the
miR-106b-25 cluster and the miR-106a-363 cluster. Collectively, the microRNAs
encoded by these clusters can be further grouped based on the seed sequences into
four families, namely the miR-17, the miR-92, the miR-18 and the miR-19 families.
Over-expression of the miR-106b-25 and miR-17-92 clusters has been reported not
only during the development of cirrhosis but also subsequently during the
development of hepatocellular carcinoma. Members of these clusters have also been
shown to affect the replication of hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses. Various
targets of these microRNAs have been identified, and these targets are involved
in tumor growth, cell survival and metastasis. In this review, we first describe 
the regulation of these clusters by c-Myc and E2F1, and how the members of these 
clusters in turn regulate E2F1 expression forming an auto-regulatory loop. In
addition, the roles of the various members of the clusters in affecting relevant 
target gene expression in the pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma will also 
be discussed.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i20.5962 
PMCID: PMC4033436
PMID: 24876719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Oncogenesis. 2014 Apr 14;3:e97. doi: 10.1038/oncsis.2014.11.

MiRNA-99a directly regulates AGO2 through translational repression in
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Zhang J(1), Jin H(2), Liu H(1), Lv S(2), Wang B(2), Wang R(1), Liu H(2), Ding
M(2), Yang Y(1), Li L(2), Zhang J(1), Fu S(1), Xie D(3), Wu M(2), Zhou W(1), Qian
Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Third Department of Hepatic Surgery, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery
Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Laboratory of Viral and Gene Therapy, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital, 
Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Institute for Nutritional Sciences, Shanghai
Institutes of Biological Sciences, Shanghai, China.

The regulation network consisting of microRNAs (miRNAs) and their target genes
remains largely elusive in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), especially the
reciprocal loop between specific miRNAs and the miRNA processing machinery. In
this study, we found that miR-99a was remarkably decreased in 111 of 152 (73.03%)
primary HCC tissues and low-level expression of miR-99a was correlated with low
tumor differentiation (P=0.001), liver cirrhosis (P=0.015), poor tumor-free
survival (P=0.004) and overall survival (P=0.006) for HCC patients. By
restoration of miR-99a, the HCC growth could be considerably inhibited both in
vitro and in vivo. Subsequently, Argonaute-2 (Ago2), a central component of
RNA-induced silencing complex, was found to be directly regulated by miR-99a via 
translational repression. Overexpression of Ago2 could partly impair the
inhibitory effect of miR-99a on HCC cells in vitro. Then, we demonstrated that
Ago2 was upregulated in HCC tissues at both RNA and protein levels and the
expression of AGO2 protein and miR-99a was negatively correlated within detected 
HCC tissues (r=-0.727, P=0.004). Interestingly, the tumorigenicity of
Ago2-knockdown HCC cells was severely impaired (4/10 vs 10/10, P<0.05), and this 
was in contrast to the miR-99a-overexpressing HCC cells. Functionally, the
increased AGO2 protein could specifically facilitate oncogenic miR-21 to repress 
its targeted gene phosphatase and tensin homolog (Pten) in HCC, whereas leave the
regulatory capacity of let-7a on its targeted oncogenes almost unaltered. In
summary, our study has revealed a novel pathway for the tumor suppressor miR-99a 
to control tumor growth in HCC, via its downstream signaling of AGO2/miR-21/PTEN.
In addition, this study provides potential strategies for HCC therapy by
reintroduction of miRNA suppressors.

DOI: 10.1038/oncsis.2014.11 
PMCID: PMC4007193
PMID: 24732044 


75. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 14;9(3):e91745. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091745. eCollection
2014.

Hepatitis B virus induces cell proliferation via HBx-induced microRNA-21 in
hepatocellular carcinoma by targeting programmed cell death protein4 (PDCD4) and 
phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN).

Damania P(1), Sen B(1), Dar SB(1), Kumar S(2), Kumari A(1), Gupta E(1), Sarin
SK(1), Venugopal SK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(2)South Asian University, New Delhi, India.

Hepatitis B viral infection-induced hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the major 
problems in the developing countries. One of the HBV proteins, HBx, modulates the
host cell machinery via several mechanisms. In this study we hypothesized that
HBV enhances cell proliferation via HBx-induced microRNA-21 in hepatocellular
carcinoma. HBx gene was over-expressed, and miRNA-21 expression and cell
proliferation were measured in Huh 7 and Hep G2 cells. miRNA-21 was
over-expressed in these cells, cell proliferation and the target proteins were
analyzed. To confirm the role of miRNA-21 in HBx-induced proliferation, Hep G
2.2.1.5 cells (a cell line that expresses HBV stably) were used for miRNA-21
inhibition studies. HBx over-expression enhanced proliferation (3.7- and 4.5-fold
increase; n = 3; p<0.01) and miRNA-21 expression (24- and 36-fold increase,
normalized with 5S rRNA; p<0.001) in Huh 7 and Hep G2 cells respectively. HBx
also resulted in the inhibition of miRNA-21 target proteins, PDCD4 and PTEN.
miRNA-21 resulted in a significant increase in proliferation (2- and 2.3-fold
increase over control cells; p<0.05 in Huh 7 and Hep G2 cells respectively) and
decreased target proteins, PDCD4 and PTEN expression. Anti-miR-21 resulted in a
significant decrease in proliferation (p<0.05) and increased miRNA-21 target
protein expression. We conclude that HBV infection enhances cell proliferation,
at least in part, via HBx-induced miRNA-21 expression during hepatocellular
carcinoma progression.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091745 
PMCID: PMC3954734
PMID: 24633222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Mol Cancer Res. 2014 Mar;12(3):313-21. doi: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-13-0507. Epub
2013 Dec 27.

miR-338-3p suppresses gastric cancer progression through a PTEN-AKT axis by
targeting P-REX2a.

Guo B(1), Liu L, Yao J, Ma R, Chang D, Li Z, Song T, Huang C.

Author information: 
(1)Xi'an Jiaotong University College of Medicine, Yanta Western Road 76, Xi'an
710061, China. hchen@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.

Results from recent studies suggest that aberrant microRNA expression is common
in numerous cancers. Although miR-338-3p has been implicated in hepatocellular
carcinoma, its role in gastric cancer is unknown. To this end, we report that
miR-338-3p is downregulated in both gastric cancer tissue and cell lines. Forced 
expression of miR-338-3p inhibited cell proliferation and clonogenicity and
induced a G1-S arrest as well as apoptosis in gastric cancer cells. Furthermore, 
P-Rex2a (PREX2) was identified as a direct target of miR-338-3p, and silencing
P-Rex2a resulted in the same biologic effects of miR-338-3p expression in gastric
cancer cells. Furthermore, both enforced expression of miR-338-3p or silencing of
P-Rex2a resulted in activation of PTEN, leading to a decline in AKT
phosphorylation. Also, miR-338-3p markedly inhibited the in vivo tumorigenicity
in a nude mouse xenograft model system. These results demonstrate that miR-338-3p
affects gastric cancer progression through PTEN-AKT signaling by targeting
P-Rex2a in gastric cancer cells, which posits miR-338-3p as a novel strategy for 
gastric cancer treatment.IMPLICATIONS: miR-338-3p acts as a novel tumor
suppressor that blocks the growth of gastric cancer cells through PTEN-PI3K
signaling by targeting P-Rex2a.

DOI: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-13-0507 
PMID: 24375644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;10(11):656-65. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2013.183. Epub 2013 Oct 1.

NAFLD, NASH and liver cancer.

Michelotti GA(1), Machado MV, Diehl AM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical 
Center, 595 LaSalle Street, Snyderman Building, Suite 1073, Durham, NC 27710,
USA.

NAFLD affects a large proportion of the US population and its incidence and
prevalence are increasing to epidemic proportions around the world. As with other
liver diseases that cause cirrhosis, NAFLD increases the risk of liver cancer, a 
disease with poor outcomes and limited therapeutic options. The incidences of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma are also
rising, and HCC is now the leading cause of obesity-related cancer deaths in
middle-aged men in the USA. In this Review, we summarize the correlations between
liver cancer and NAFLD-related cirrhosis, and the role of the metabolic syndrome 
in the development of liver cancer from diverse aetiologies, including
HCV-mediated cirrhosis. Recent advances in understanding the progression of NAFLD
to HCC from preclinical models will also be discussed. Targeted genetic
manipulation of certain metabolic or stress-response pathways, including
one-carbon metabolism, NF-κB, PTEN and microRNAs, has been valuable in
elucidating the pathways that regulate carcinogenesis in NAFLD. Although
tremendous advances have occurred in the identification of diagnostic and
therapeutic opportunities to reduce the progression of NAFLD, considerable gaps
in our knowledge remain with regard to the mechanisms by which NAFLD and its risk
factors promote liver cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2013.183 
PMID: 24080776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Gene. 2014 Jan 1;533(1):389-97. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.038. Epub 2013 Sep
26.

Diagnostic and prognostic value of circulating miR-21 for cancer: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Wang Y(1), Gao X, Wei F, Zhang X, Yu J, Zhao H, Sun Q, Yan F, Yan C, Li H, Ren X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and
Hospital, China; National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, China; Key
Laboratory of Cancer Immunology and Biotherapy, Tianjin, China.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to be aberrantly expressed in
patients with cancer. Many studies have shown that circulating miRNAs could play 
potential roles as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of cancers. The aim of
this meta-analysis is to summarize the role of circulating miR-21 as a biomarker 
in patients with a variety of carcinomas.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Eligible studies were identified and assessed for quality
through multiple search strategies. For diagnostic meta-analysis, the
sensitivity, specificity, and other measures of miR-21 in the diagnosis of cancer
were pooled using bivariate random-effects approach models. For prognostic
meta-analysis, pooled hazard ratios (HRs) of circulating miR-21 for survival were
calculated.
RESULTS: A total of 36 studies dealing with various carcinomas were included for 
the systemic review. Among them, 23 studies were finally enrolled in the global
meta-analysis (17 studies for diagnosis and 6 studies for prognosis). For
diagnostic meta-analysis, the overall pooled results for sensitivity,
specificity, positive likelihood ratio (LRP), negative likelihood ratios (LRN)
and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) were 75.7% (95% CI: 67.1%-82.6%), 79.3% (95% CI: 
74.2%-83.5%), 3.65 (95% CI: 2.83-4.70), 0.31 (95% CI: 0.22-0.43), and 11.88 (95% 
CI: 6.99-20.19), respectively. For prognostic meta-analysis, the pooled HR of
higher miR-21 expression in circulation was 2.37 (95% CI: 1.83-3.06, P<0.001),
which could significantly predict poorer survival in general carcinomas.
Importantly, subgroup analysis suggested that higher expression of miR-21
correlated with worse overall survival (OS) significantly in carcinomas of
digestion system (HR, 5.77 [95% CI: 2.65-12.52]).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that circulating miR-21 may not suitable to be 
a diagnostic biomarker, but it has a prognostic value in patients with cancer.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.038 
PMID: 24076132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Int J Oncol. 2013 Aug;43(2):661-9. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2013.1965. Epub 2013 May 27.

MicroRNA-21 regulates the migration and invasion of a stem-like population in
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Zhou L(1), Yang ZX, Song WJ, Li QJ, Yang F, Wang DS, Zhang N, Dou KF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, The 155 Central Hospital of PLA, Kaifeng,
He'nan 471000, PR China.

Due to invasion and intrahepatic metastasis, the prognosis for patients with
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is poor. However, the mechanisms underlying these 
processes of HCC remain unclear. Cancer stem cells may be involved in early
systemic dissemination and metastasis formation and side population (SP) cells
isolated from diverse cancer cells possess stem cell-like properties. However,
the mechanisms involved in migration and invasion of cancer stem cells are not
well understood. In this study, we identified and isolated populations of SP
cells from HCC cell lines using flow cyto-metry. SP cells showed higher levels of
migration and invasion capability. Higher expression of miR-21 was observed in SP
cells. Silencing of miR-21 led to a reduction in the migration and invasion of
these cells and overexpression of miR-21 can increase in cell migration and
invasion. Overexpression of miR-21 did not cause degradation of PTEN or RECK or
PDCD4 mRNA but drastically inhibited its protein expression. Consistent with
these results, silencing miR-21 increased the levels of PTEN, RECK and PDCD4
protein, respectively. The role of silencing miR-21 was partially attenuated by
silencing of PTEN or RECK or PDCD4 mRNA. The results of this study revealed the
aberrant expression of miR-21 in SP cells and showed that miR-21 regulates the
expression of multiple target proteins that are associated with tumor
dissemination. MiR-21 is a pro-metastatic miRNA in SP cells and raises the
possibility that therapy of HCC may be improved by pharmaceutical strategies
directed towards miR-21.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2013.1965 
PMID: 23708209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Cancer Lett. 2013 Sep 1;337(2):226-36. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.05.007. Epub
2013 May 14.

MicroRNA-21 suppresses PTEN and hSulf-1 expression and promotes hepatocellular
carcinoma progression through AKT/ERK pathways.

Bao L(1), Yan Y, Xu C, Ji W, Shen S, Xu G, Zeng Y, Sun B, Qian H, Chen L, Wu M,
Su C, Chen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Oncology, Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgical Hospital &
Institute, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai 200438, China.

Erratum in
    Cancer Lett. 2020 Mar 31;473:198-199.
    Cancer Lett. 2020 Jun 28;480:49-50.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been believed to associate with malignant progression
including cancer cell proliferation, apoptosis, differentiation, angiogenesis,
invasion and metastasis. However, the functions of miRNAs are intricate, one
miRNA can directly or indirectly target multiple genes and function as oncogene
or tumor suppressor gene. In this study, we found that miR-21 inhibits PTEN and
human sulfatase-1 (hSulf-1) expression in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells.
The hSulf-1 is a heparin-degrading endosulfatase, which can inhibit the heparin
binding growth factor-mediated signaling transduction into cells. Therefore,
miR-21-mediated suppression of both hSulf-1 and PTEN led to activation of AKT/ERK
pathways and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in HCC cells, and finally
enhance the activity of HCC cell proliferation and movement and promote HCC
xenograft tumor growth in mouse models. These findings may provide candidate
targets for prevention and treatment of HCC.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.05.007 
PMID: 23684551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Mol Med Rep. 2013 May;7(5):1413-6. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1406. Epub 2013 Mar 28.

Expression and significance of PTEN and miR-92 in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Zhao B(1), Zhu Y, Cui K, Gao J, Yu F, Chen L, Li S.

Author information: 
(1)School Hospital, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong 250011, PR China.

The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between the expression
levels of the tumor suppressor gene phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and the
microRNA (miRNA) miR-92 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and paracancerous
tissue. Immunohistochemistry [streptavidin-peroxidase (SP)] and quantitative
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (qRT‑PCR) were used to detect the
expression of PTEN and miR-92 in 15 cases of HCC and the corresponding
paracancerous tissues. The correlation between PTEN and miR-92 was analyzed. The 
expression of PTEN mRNA and protein was significantly lower in HCC compared with 
that in paracancerous tissues (P<0.05). miR-92 showed the opposite expression
pattern (P<0.05). Additionally, the mRNA levels of PTEN and miR-92 showed a
significantly negative correlation with each other (r=-0.858, P<0.05). In
conclusion, PTEN and miR-92 have different roles in the development of HCC. The
combined detection of PTEN and miR-92 may provide critical clinical evidence for 
the early diagnosis and prognosis of HCC.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1406 
PMID: 23546593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Hepatology. 2013 Aug;58(2):629-41. doi: 10.1002/hep.26369. Epub 2013 Jun 25.

MicroRNA-216a/217-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition targets PTEN and
SMAD7 to promote drug resistance and recurrence of liver cancer.

Xia H(1), Ooi LL, Hui KM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cancer Genomics, Division of Cellular and Molecular Research,
Humphrey Oei Institute of Cancer Research, National Cancer Center, Singapore,
Singapore.

Tumor recurrence and metastases are the major obstacles to improving the
prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). To identify novel risk
factors associated with HCC recurrence and metastases, we have established a
panel of recurrence-associated microRNAs (miRNAs) by comparing miRNA expression
in recurrent and nonrecurrent human HCC tissue samples using microarrays
(recurrence is defined as recurrent disease occurring within a 2-year time point 
of the original treatment). Among the panel, expression of the miR-216a/217
cluster was consistently and significantly up-regulated in HCC tissue samples and
cell lines associated with early tumor recurrence, poor disease-free survival,
and an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) phenotype. Stable overexpression
of miR-216a/217-induced EMT increased the stem-like cell population, migration,
and metastatic ability of epithelial HCC cells. Phosphatase and tensin homolog
(PTEN) and mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 7 (SMAD7) were subsequently
identified as two functional targets of miR-216a/217, and both PTEN and SMAD7
were down-regulated in HCC. Ectopic expression of PTEN or SMAD7 partially rescued
miR-216a/217-mediated EMT, cell migration, and stem-like properties of HCC cells.
Previously, SMAD7 was shown to be a transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) type 
1 receptor antagonist. Here, we further demonstrated that overexpression of
miR-216a/217 acted as a positive feedback regulator for the TGF-β pathway and the
canonical pathway involved in the activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein
kinase K (PI3K/Akt) signaling in HCC cells. Additionally, activation of the
TGF-β- and PI3K/Akt-signaling pathways in HCC cells resulted in an acquired
resistance to sorafenib, whereas blocking activation of the TGF-β pathway
overcame miR-216a/217-induced sorafenib resistance and prevented tumor metastases
in HCC.CONCLUSION: Overexpression of miR-216a/217 activates the PI3K/Akt and
TGF-β pathways by targeting PTEN and SMAD7, contributing to hepatocarcinogenesis 
and tumor recurrence in HCC.

Copyright © 2013 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26369 
PMID: 23471579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Cell Sci. 2013 Mar 15;126(Pt 6):1517-30. doi: 10.1242/jcs.122895. Epub 2013 Feb
15.

Mature miR-17-5p and passenger miR-17-3p induce hepatocellular carcinoma by
targeting PTEN, GalNT7 and vimentin in different signal pathways.

Shan SW(1), Fang L, Shatseva T, Rutnam ZJ, Yang X, Du W, Lu WY, Xuan JW, Deng Z, 
Yang BB.

Author information: 
(1)Sunnybrook Research Institute, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto M4N 
3M5, Canada.

To study the physiological role of a single microRNA (miRNA), we generated
transgenic mice expressing the miRNA precursor miR-17 and found that the mature
miR-17-5p and the passenger strand miR-17-3p were abundantly expressed. We showed
that mature miR-17-5p and passenger strand miR-17-3p could synergistically induce
the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. The mature miR-17-5p exerted this
function by repressing the expression of PTEN. In contrast, the passenger strand 
miR-17-3p repressed expression of vimentin, an intermediate filament with the
ability to modulate metabolism, and GalNT7, an enzyme that regulates metabolism
of liver toxin galactosamine. Hepatocellular carcinoma cells, HepG2, transfected 
with miR-17 formed larger tumors with more blood vessels and less tumor cell
death than mock-treated cells. Expression of miR-17 precursor modulated HepG2
proliferation, migration, survival, morphogenesis and colony formation and
inhibited endothelial tube formation. Silencing of PTEN, vimentin or GalNT7 with 
their respective siRNAs enhanced proliferation and migration. Re-expressing these
molecules reversed their roles in proliferation, migration and tumorigenesis.
Further experiments indicated that these three molecules do not interact with
each other, but appear to function in different signaling pathways. Our results
demonstrated that a mature miRNA can function synergistically with its passenger 
strand leading to the same phenotype but by regulating different targets located 
in different signaling pathways. We anticipate that our assay will serve as a
helpful model for studying miRNA regulation.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.122895 
PMID: 23418359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Hepatology. 2012 Dec;56(6):2255-67. doi: 10.1002/hep.26007.

Hepatic transforming growth factor beta gives rise to tumor-initiating cells and 
promotes liver cancer development.

Wu K(1), Ding J, Chen C, Sun W, Ning BF, Wen W, Huang L, Han T, Yang W, Wang C,
Li Z, Wu MC, Feng GS, Xie WF, Wang HY.

Author information: 
(1)International Cooperation Laboratory on Signal Transduction, Eastern
Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai,
China.

Liver cirrhosis is a predominant risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). 
However, the mechanism underlying the progression from cirrhosis to HCC remains
unclear. Herein we report the concurrent increase of liver progenitor cells
(LPCs) and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) in diethylnitrosamine
(DEN)-induced rat hepatocarcinogenesis and cirrhotic livers of HCC patients.
Using several experimental approaches, including 2-acetylaminofluorene/partial
hepatectomy (2-AAF/PHx) and 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine
(DDC)-elicited murine liver regeneration, we found that activation of LPCs in the
absence of TGF-β induction was insufficient to trigger hepatocarcinogenesis.
Moreover, a small fraction of LPCs was detected to coexpress tumor initiating
cell (T-IC) markers during rat hepatocarcinogenesis and in human HCCs, and TGF-β 
levels were positively correlated with T-IC marker expression, which indicates a 
role of TGF-β in T-IC generation. Rat pluripotent LPC-like WB-F344 cells were
exposed to low doses of TGF-β for 18 weeks imitating the enhanced TGF-β
expression in cirrhotic liver. Interestingly, long-term treatment of TGF-β on
WB-F344 cells impaired their LPC potential but granted them T-IC properties
including expression of T-IC markers, increased self-renewal capacity, stronger
chemoresistance, and tumorigenicity in NOD-SCID mice. Hyperactivation of Akt but 
not Notch, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), or
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) was detected in TGF-β-treated WB-F344 cells.
Introduction of the dominant-negative mutant of Akt significantly attenuated T-IC
properties of those transformed WB-F344 cells, indicating Akt was required in
TGF-β-mediated-generation of hepatic T-ICs. We further demonstrate that
TGF-β-induced Akt activation and LPC transformation was mediated by
microRNA-216a-modulated phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10
(PTEN) suppression.CONCLUSION: Hepatoma-initiating cells may derive from hepatic 
progenitor cells exposed to chronic and constant TGF-β stimulation in cirrhotic
liver, and pharmaceutical inhibition of microRNA-216a/PTEN/Akt signaling could be
a novel strategy for HCC prevention and therapy targeting hepatic T-ICs.

Copyright © 2012 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26007 
PMID: 22898879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Mol Cancer Res. 2012 Jul;10(7):979-91. doi: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-11-0421. Epub
2012 May 23.

Human ESC self-renewal promoting microRNAs induce epithelial-mesenchymal
transition in hepatocytes by controlling the PTEN and TGFβ tumor suppressor
signaling pathways.

Jung CJ(1), Iyengar S, Blahnik KR, Jiang JX, Tahimic C, Torok NJ, de vere White
RW, Farnham PJ, Zern M.

Author information: 
(1)Transplant Research Program & UC Davis Institute for Regenerative Cures,
University of California Davis, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA. cjjung@ucdavis.edu

The self-renewal capacity ascribed to embryonic stem cells (ESC) is reminiscent
of cancer cell proliferation, raising speculation that a common network of genes 
may regulate these traits. A search for general regulators of these traits
yielded a set of microRNAs for which expression is highly enriched in human ESCs 
and liver cancer cells (HCC) but attenuated in differentiated quiescent
hepatocytes. Here, we show that these microRNAs promote hESC self-renewal, as
well as HCC proliferation, and when overexpressed in normally quiescent
hepatocytes, induce proliferation and activate cancer signaling pathways.
Proliferation in hepatocytes is mediated through translational repression of
Pten, Tgfbr2, Klf11, and Cdkn1a, which collectively dysregulates the
PI3K/AKT/mTOR and TGFβ tumor suppressor signaling pathways. Furthermore, aberrant
expression of these miRNAs is observed in human liver tumor tissues and induces
epithelial-mesenchymal transition in hepatocytes. These findings suggest that
microRNAs that are essential in normal development as promoters of ESC
self-renewal are frequently upregulated in human liver tumors and harbor
neoplastic transformation potential when they escape silencing in quiescent human
hepatocytes.

Mol Cancer Res; 10(7); 979-91. ©2012 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-11-0421 
PMCID: PMC4166560
PMID: 22622027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. PLoS One. 2012;7(4):e35331. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0035331. Epub 2012 Apr 9.

Role of miR-148a in hepatitis B associated hepatocellular carcinoma.

Yuan K(1), Lian Z, Sun B, Clayton MM, Ng IO, Feitelson MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, College of Science and Technology, Temple University,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America.

Hepatitis B virus encoded X antigen (HBx) is a trans-regulatory protein that
alters the activity of selected transcription factors and cytoplasmic signal
transduction pathways. HBx transcriptionally up-regulates the expression of a
unique gene, URG11, which in turn transcriptionally up-regulates β-catenin,
thereby contributing importantly to hepatocarcinogenesis. HBx and URG11 also
alter the expression of multiple microRNAs, and by miRNA array analysis, both
were shown to promote the expression of miR-148a. Elevated miR-148a was also seen
in HBx positive liver samples from infected patients. To study the function of
miR-148a, anti-148a was introduced into HepG2 and Hep3B cells stably expressing
HBx or stably over-expressing URG11. Anti-miR-148a suppressed cell proliferation,
cell cycle progression, cell migration, anchorage independent growth in soft agar
and subcutaneous tumor formation in SCID mice. Introduction of anti-miR-148a
increased PTEN protein and mRNA expression, suggesting that PTEN was targeted by 
miR-148a. Anti-miR-148a failed to suppress PTEN expression when co-transfected
with reporter gene mutants in the 3'UTR of PTEN mRNA. Introduction of
anti-miR-148a also resulted in depressed Akt signaling by HBx and URG11,
resulting in decreased expression of β-catenin. Thus, miR-148a may play a central
role in HBx/URG11 mediated HCC, and may be an early diagnostic marker and/or
therapeutic target associated with this tumor type.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0035331 
PMCID: PMC3322146
PMID: 22496917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. PLoS One. 2011 May 5;6(5):e19518. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019518.

Upregulated microRNA-29a by hepatitis B virus X protein enhances hepatoma cell
migration by targeting PTEN in cell culture model.

Kong G(1), Zhang J, Zhang S, Shan C, Ye L, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology of Ministry of
Education, Department of Cancer Research, Institute for Molecular Biology,
College of Life Sciences, Nankai University, Tianjin, People's Republic of China.

Hepatitis B virus X protein (HBx) plays important roles in the development of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) contribute to cancer
development by acting as oncogenes or tumor suppressors. Previously, we reported 
that HBx was able to promote the migration of hepatoma HepG2 cells. However, the 
regulation of miRNAs in the development of HBV-related HCC is poorly understood. 
In the present study, we reported that miR-29a was a novel regulator of migration
of hepatoma cells mediated by HBx. Our data showed that the expression of miR-29a
was dramatically increased in p21-HBx transgenic mice, HBx-transfected hepatoma
HepG2-X (or H7402-X) cells and HepG2.2.15 cells that constitutively replicate
HBV. However, our data showed that miR-29a was upregulated in 4 of the 11
clinical HCC samples. We found that the overexpression of miR-29a promoted the
migration of HepG2 cells, while a specific miR-29a inhibitor could partially
abolish the enhanced migration of HepG2-X cells. Moreover, we identified PTEN was
one of the target genes of miR-29a in HepG2 cells. The deletion of the
miR-29a-binding site was able to abolish the role of miR-29a in suppression of
luciferase activity of the PTEN 3'UTR reporter. Meanwhile, the overexpression of 
PTEN was able to reverse the promoted migration of HepG2 cells mediated by
miR-29a. Moreover, our data showed that the modulation of Akt phosphorylation, a 
downstream factor of PTEN, was involved in the cell migration enhanced by
miR-29a, suggesting that miR-29a is responsible for the cell migration through
its target gene PTEN. Thus, we conclude that miR-29a is involved in the
regulation of migration of hepatoma cells mediated by HBx through PTEN in cell
culture model.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019518 
PMCID: PMC3088678
PMID: 21573166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Hepatology. 2011 Jul;54(1):38-49. doi: 10.1002/hep.24340.

Down-regulation of phosphatase and tensin homolog by hepatitis C virus core 3a in
hepatocytes triggers the formation of large lipid droplets.

Clément S(1), Peyrou M, Sanchez-Pareja A, Bourgoin L, Ramadori P, Suter D,
Vinciguerra M, Guilloux K, Pascarella S, Rubbia-Brandt L, Negro F, Foti M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Pathology, University Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) perturbs the host's lipid metabolism and often results in
hepatic steatosis. In nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the intrahepatic
down-regulation of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN)
is a critical mechanism leading to steatosis and its progression toward fibrosis 
and hepatocellular carcinoma. However, whether an HCV infection triggers the
formation of large lipid droplets through PTEN-dependent mechanisms is unknown.
We assessed PTEN expression in the livers of patients infected with HCV genotype 
1 or 3 with or without steatosis. The role of PTEN in the HCV-induced biogenesis 
of lipid droplets was further investigated in vitro with hepatoma cells
transduced with the HCV core protein of genotype 1b or 3a. Our data indicate that
PTEN expression was down-regulated at the posttranscriptional level in steatotic 
patients infected with genotype 3a. Similarly, the in vitro expression of the HCV
genotype 3a core protein (but not 1b), typically leading to the appearance of
large lipid droplets, down-regulated PTEN expression by a mechanism involving a
microRNA-dependent blockade of PTEN messenger RNA translation. PTEN
down-regulation promoted in turn a reduction of insulin receptor substrate 1
(IRS1) expression. Interestingly, either PTEN or IRS1 overexpression prevented
the development of large lipid droplets, and this indicates that the
down-regulation of both PTEN and IRS1 is required to affect the biogenesis of
lipid droplets. However, IRS1 knockdown per se did not alter the morphology of
lipid droplets, and this suggests that other PTEN-dependent mechanisms are
involved in this process.CONCLUSION: The down-regulation of PTEN and IRS1 is a
critical event leading to the HCV genotype 3a-induced formation of large lipid
droplets in hepatocytes.

Copyright © 2011 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.24340 
PMID: 21465511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Hepatol. 2010 Jul;53(1):98-107. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2010.02.021. Epub 2010 Apr 
4.

MicroRNA-21 acts as an oncomir through multiple targets in human hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Liu C(1), Yu J, Yu S, Lavker RM, Cai L, Liu W, Yang K, He X, Chen S.

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences (CAMS) & Peking Union Medical
College (PUMC), Department of Biochemistry, Beijing, PR China.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: MicroRNA-21 negatively regulates several targets, thereby
affecting tumorigenesis. However, its mechanism of action in human hepatocellular
carcinoma is poorly understood, and no direct evidence has shown a correlation
between microRNA-21 function and phenotype. In this study, we investigate the
function of microRNA-21 as a potent oncomir and probe the relationship between
microRNA-21, its targets, and phenotypic alterations.
METHODS: We designed a set of rescue experiments using different combinations of 
anti-microRNA-21, siRNA, and a negative control to modulate the protein level of 
microRNA-21 targets and resulting phenotypic alterations. MicroRNA-21 was
suppressed using anti-microRNA-21 to further uncover its effect on several
critical signaling pathways.
RESULTS: We demonstrate that hepatocellular carcinoma is characterized by
elevated levels of microRNA-21 and marked reductions of PTEN, PDCD4, and RECK
expression. Silencing of PTEN and PDCD4 to prevent their induction by
anti-microRNA-21 treatment led to decreased apoptosis and increased invasion,
while silencing of RECK only led to increased invasion. Moreover, knockdown of
microRNA-21 resulted in alterations of the Akt signaling pathway, the expression 
of p21 and MMP families, which are associated with apoptosis, and the cell cycle 
or invasiveness of cancer cells.
CONCLUSIONS: MicroRNA-21 simultaneously regulates multiple programs that enhance 
cell proliferation, apoptosis or tumor invasiveness by targeting PTEN, PDCD4, and
RECK in hepatocellular carcinomas. Targeting of microRNA-21 is sufficient to
limit tumor cell proliferation and invasion in a manner that is likely to involve
associated changes in multiple targets, suggesting that suppression of
microRNA-21 may be a novel approach for the treatment of hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Copyright 2010 European Association for the Study of the Liver. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2010.02.021 
PMID: 20447717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Cancer Cell. 2009 Dec 8;16(6):498-509. doi: 10.1016/j.ccr.2009.10.014.

miR-221&222 regulate TRAIL resistance and enhance tumorigenicity through PTEN and
TIMP3 downregulation.

Garofalo M(1), Di Leva G, Romano G, Nuovo G, Suh SS, Ngankeu A, Taccioli C,
Pichiorri F, Alder H, Secchiero P, Gasparini P, Gonelli A, Costinean S, Acunzo M,
Condorelli G, Croce CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Virology, Immunology and Medical Genetics,
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.

Lung and liver cancers are among the most deadly types of cancer. Despite
improvements in treatment over the past few decades, patient survival remains
poor, underlining the need for development of targeted therapies. MicroRNAs
represent a class of small RNAs frequently deregulated in human malignancies. We 
now report that miR-221&222 are overexpressed in aggressive non-small cell lung
cancer and hepatocarcinoma cells, as compared with less invasive and/or normal
lung and liver cells. We show that miR-221&222, by targeting PTEN and TIMP3 tumor
suppressors, induce TRAIL resistance and enhance cellular migration through the
activation of the AKT pathway and metallopeptidases. Finally, we demonstrate that
the MET oncogene is involved in miR-221&222 activation through the c-Jun
transcription factor.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccr.2009.10.014 
PMCID: PMC2796583
PMID: 19962668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Hepatology. 2009 Oct;50(4):1152-61. doi: 10.1002/hep.23100.

Role of microRNA-155 at early stages of hepatocarcinogenesis induced by
choline-deficient and amino acid-defined diet in C57BL/6 mice.

Wang B(1), Majumder S, Nuovo G, Kutay H, Volinia S, Patel T, Schmittgen TD, Croce
C, Ghoshal K, Jacob ST.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, Ohio State University,
Columbus, OH, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRs) are conserved, small (20-25 nucleotide) noncoding RNAs that
negatively regulate expression of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) at the
posttranscriptional level. Aberrant expression of certain microRNAs plays a
causal role in tumorigenesis. Here, we report identification of hepatic microRNAs
that are dysregulated at early stages of feeding C57BL/6 mice choline-deficient
and amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet that is known to promote nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis after 84 weeks. Microarray
analysis identified 30 hepatic microRNAs that are significantly (P < or = 0.01)
altered in mice fed CDAA diet for 6, 18, 32, and 65 weeks compared with those fed
choline-sufficient and amino acid-defined (CSAA) diet. Real-time reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis demonstrated
up-regulation of oncogenic miR-155, miR-221/222, and miR-21 and down-regulation
of the most abundant liver-specific miR-122 at early stages of
hepatocarcinogenesis. Western blot analysis showed reduced expression of hepatic 
phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta
(C/EBPbeta), respective targets of miR-21 and miR-155, in these mice at early
stages. DNA binding activity of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) that
transactivates miR-155 gene was significantly (P = 0.002) elevated in the liver
nuclear extract of mice fed CDAA diet. Furthermore, the expression of miR-155, as
measured by in situ hybridization and real-time RT-PCR, correlated with
diet-induced histopathological changes in the liver. Ectopic expression of
miR-155 promoted growth of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, whereas its
depletion inhibited cell growth. Notably, miR-155 was significantly (P = 0.0004) 
up-regulated in primary human HCCs with a concomitant decrease (P = 0.02) in
C/EBPbeta level compared with matching liver tissues.CONCLUSION: Temporal changes
in microRNA profile occur at early stages of CDAA diet-induced
hepatocarcinogenesis. Reciprocal regulation of specific oncomirs and their tumor 
suppressor targets implicate their role in NASH-induced hepatocarcinogenesis and 
suggest their use in the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy of liver cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.23100 
PMCID: PMC2757532
PMID: 19711427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Gastroenterology. 2007 Aug;133(2):647-58. Epub 2007 May 21.

MicroRNA-21 regulates expression of the PTEN tumor suppressor gene in human
hepatocellular cancer.

Meng F(1), Henson R, Wehbe-Janek H, Ghoshal K, Jacob ST, Patel T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Scott and White Clinic, Texas A&M University 
System Health Science Center College of Medicine, Temple, Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: microRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNAs that regulate
gene expression negatively. Although a role for aberrant miRNA expression in
cancer has been postulated, the pathophysiologic role and relevance of aberrantly
expressed miRNA to tumor biology has not been established.
METHODS: We evaluated the expression of miRNA in human hepatocellular cancer
(HCC) by expression profiling, and defined a target gene and biologically
functional effect of an up-regulated miRNA.
RESULTS: miR-21 was noted to be highly overexpressed in HCC tumors and cell lines
in expression profiling studies using a miRNA microarray. Inhibition of miR-21 in
cultured HCC cells increased expression of the phosphatase and tensin homolog
(PTEN) tumor suppressor, and decreased tumor cell proliferation, migration, and
invasion. In contrast-enhanced miR-21 expression by transfection with precursor
miR-21 increased tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Moreover, an 
increase in cell migration was observed in normal human hepatocytes transfected
with precursor miR-21. PTEN was shown to be a direct target of miR-21, and to
contribute to miR-21 effects on cell invasion. Modulation of miR-21 altered focal
adhesion kinase phosphorylation and expression of matrix metalloproteases 2 and
9, both downstream mediators of PTEN involved in cell migration and invasion.
CONCLUSIONS: Aberrant expression of miR-21 can contribute to HCC growth and
spread by modulating PTEN expression and PTEN-dependent pathways involved in
mediating phenotypic characteristics of cancer cells such as cell growth,
migration, and invasion.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2007.05.022 
PMCID: PMC4285346
PMID: 17681183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

